B 1517 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Extraordinary 
 
 
 
 
 
Federal Republic of Nigeria 
Official Gazette 
No. 101                            Lagos -25th December, 2012                             Vol. 99 
 
 
Government Notice  No. 270 
 
The following is published as supplement to this Gazette : 
 
S.I. No.                                                   Short  Title                                                   Page  
 
61       National Road Traffic Regulations, 2012   ..      ..      ..      ..      ..   B 1519-1717 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Printed and Published by The Federal Government Printer, Lagos, Nigeria 
FGP 74/32013/320 (OL 84) 
 
Annua l Subscriptio n from 1st Januar y, 2012 is Local : N25,000.0 0 Oversea s : N37,500.0 0 [Surfac e Mail] 
N49,500.00 [Second Class Air Mail]. Present issue N1,500 per copy. Subscribers who wish to obtain Gazette after 1st 
January should apply to the Federal Government Printer, Lagos for amended Subscriptions. 
B 1518 
 
 
B 1519 
 
 
 
 
FEDERAL ROAD SAFETY COMMISSION (ESTABLISHMENT) 
ACT,  2007 
 
NATIONAL ROAD TRAFFIC REGULATIONS, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation : 
 
 
1.    Objectives 
ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS 
 
 
PART  I—OBJECTIVES 
 
 
PART  II—REGISTR ATION  OF  VEHICLES 
 
2.    Application for registration of vehicles 
3.    Registration and assignment of number plates and identification marks 
4.    Change of vehicle category 
5.    Out of series special number registration 
6.    Transfer of out of series or fancy number plates 
7.    Registration of vehicle 
8.    Categories of registration of vehicles 
9.    Ascertainment of weight before registration 
10.    Registration book 
11.    Notification of change of vehicle category 
12.    Change of vehicle ownership 
13.    Change of vehicle colour 
14.    Replacement of a vehicle engine 
15.    Vehicle lay-off certificate 
16.    Procedure for destroyed vehicles 
17.    The role of appropriate authority 
18.    Storage and provision of vehicle particulars 
19.    Unauthorised entry in the registration book 
20.    Withdrawal of registration 
21.    Appeal 
 
 
PART  III—LICENCES FOR VEHICLES 
22.    Issuance of vehicle licence 
23.    Power to refuse registration in certain cases 
24.    Appeal 
B 1520 
 
 
25.    Refund of portion of vehicle licence fee paid 
26.    Display of vehicle licence 
27.    Replacement of defaced or lost licence 
28.    Change of licence upon change of ownership 
29.    Licence or change of vehicle classification 
 
PART  IV—SPECIAL  TRADE  LICENCE 
 
30.    Special trade licence 
31.    Trade identification number or mark 
32.    Appeals 
 
PART  V—ESTABLISHMENT  AND  REGULATION   OF  DRIVING  SCHOOLS 
 
33.    Establishment and registration of driving schools 
34.    Instructor’s permit 
35.    Training instructors 
 
PART  VI—VEHICLE  IDENTIFIC ATION  NUMBERS 
 
36.    Vehicle Identification Number Plates 
37.    Display of number plates 
38.    Vehicle identification Tag 
39.    Vehicle identification number plate figures 
40.    Road charges 
41.    Proof of ownership certificate 
. 
PART  VII—LEARNER’S   PERMIT  AND  DRIVER’S  LICENCE 
 
42.    Application for Learner’s Permit 
43.    Forged permit 
44.    Classes of licence 
45.    Application for a fresh drivers’ licence 
46.    Renewal of driver’s licence 
47.    Disqualification from holding licence or permit 
48.    Invalid permits and licences 
49.    Photograph of applicant for driver’s licence 
50.    Driving test 
51.    Change of class or category of driving licence 
52.    Certification of vision acuity and general medical fitness 
53.    Form of driver’s licence 
54.    Production of driver’s licence 
55.    Grant of special permit 
56.    Conduct of driving tests 
B 1521 
 
 
57.    Certificate of competence for commercial drivers 
58.    Convoy driver’s licence 
59.    Application of driving licence 
60.    Certificate of group licence 
61.    Learner’s Sign 
62.    Replacement of defaced or illegible licence 
63.    Loss or stolen driver’s licence 
64.    Replacement of lost or stolen licence 
65.    Report of convictions to the Central Motor Registry 
66.    Suspension of drivers licence 
67.    Possession of original copy of licence by driver 
68.    Driving while licence is suspended or revoked 
69.    Drivers re-testing 
70.    Change of driver’s name and address 
71.    Unlawful use of licence 
72.    Permitting an unlicenced person to operate a vehicle. 
73.    Central Data Base 
74.    Use of valid licence 
 
PART  VIII—INTERNATIONAL  CONVENTION   PROVISIONS 
75.    Documents for vehicles taken for use outside Nigeria 
76.    Documents for drivers going outside Nigeria 
77.    International transit permits for visitors vehicles 
78.    Surrender of International Circulation Permit or International Transit 
permit 
79.    Register of permit 
80.    Registration mark and nationality sign 
81.    Exemption for visitors with foreign driving permits 
82.    Restriction on the use of foreign driving licence 
 
PART IX—DRIVERS AND CONDUCTORS REGISTRATION AND BADGES 
83.    Issuance of badges for drivers and conductors of stage carriage and 
omnibus 
84.    Registration of conductors 
85.    Exemption from the use of badges 
86.    Use of badges 
87.    Surrender of badges 
B 1522 
 
 
 
PART  X—TAXIS, STAGE  CARRIAGES,  OMNIBUSES   AND  MOTORCYCLES  FOR  HIRE 
88.    Conditions for licensing 
89.    Use and construction of taxis 
90.    Taxi roof light 
91.    Use and construction of stage carriages 
92.    Use and construction of omnibus 
93.    Number of passengers to be carried 
94.    Use and construction of multi-purpose vehicles 
95.    Carriage of persons on goods carrying vehicle 
96.    Private use of stage carriage or omnibus 
97.    Route restriction 
98.    Use and construction of motorcycles 
99.    Use and construction of motorcycle with three wheels 
100.    Power to fix fares 
101.    Table of fares and timetable to be carried and exhibited 
102.    Prohibition of noise 
103.    Smoking, eating or drinking while driving 
104.    Taxis for hire 
105.    Taxi driver not to refuse to be hired without reasonable excuse 
106.    Procedure regarding property left in vehicle 
107.    Person travelling in stage carriage or omnibus 
108.    Passenger Manifest 
 
PART  XI—USE  OF  SCHOOL  BUSES 
109.     Identification of school buses 
110.    Qualification for School bus driver and assistant school bus driver 
111.    Procedure for selecting a driver and an assistant driver of a school bus 
112.    School bus Operator’s Permit 
113.    Insurance cover for school bus and occupants 
114.    Safety unit 
115.    Penalty for contravention 
 
PART XII—USE   AND CONSTRUCTION 
116.    General conditions for use of motor vehicles 
117.    Overloading 
118.    Permit for abnormal or super-dimensional loads 
119.    Tyres, First Aid Boxes, Fire extinguishers, etc 
B 1523 
 
 
120.    Braking system 
121.    Silencers and exhaust pipes 
122.    Lighting system 
123.    Reflective stickers for vehicles 
124.    Horns 
125.    Driving mirrors 
126.    Safety belts and child safety seats 
127.    Wheel alignment 
128.    Vehicle steering and prohibition of right hand drive 
129.    Springs 
130.    Laminated windscreen and safety glass 
131.    Windscreen wipers 
132.    Mudguards 
133.    Speedometers 
134.    Spirit tankers 
135.    Motorcycle leg guards 
136.    Exemption and issue of permits for special freight or load 
137.    Conditions for use of trailer 
138.    Illuminated indicators 
139.    Insurance of vehicles 
140.    Examination to ascertain condition of vehicles 
141.    Examination of commercial and private vehicles 
142.    Roadworthiness certificate. 
143.    Notice of defects of unroadworthy vehicle 
144.    Off the Road notice 
145.    Vehicles not exceeding thirty-two tonnes gross weight 
146.    Motor vehicles to have reflex reflectors 
147.    Trailers to be equipped with reflectors 
148.    Ascertainment of weight 
149.    Heavy goods vehicle 
150.    Restriction on driving or parking of heavy goods vehicle 
151.    Transportation of hazardous goods 
 
 
 
152.    Speed limit 
PART  XIII—SPEED LIMITS 
153.    Use of emergency vehicles 
B 1524 
 
 
 
PART  XIV—USE  OF  SIRENS 
154.    Persons authorised to use siren, flashers and beacons 
155.    Obstruction of vehicles using sirens, flashers and beacon light 
 
PART  XV—TRAFFIC  SIGNS 
156.    Traffic signs, signals and notices on public roads 
157.    Destruction of traffic signs and signals 
158.    Persons exempted from obeying traffic signs and signal 
 
PART  XVI—TRAFFIC ATORS 
159.    Usage of trafficators 
160.    Compulsory usage of trafficators 
 
PART  XVII—RULES  ON  ROAD  CROSSING 
161.    Rules of driving on public roads. 
162.    Overtaking 
 
PART  XVIII—PARKING  OF  VEHICLES 
163.    Rules for stopping of vehicles on public roads, railway crossings, etc. 
164.    Removal of vehicles for wrongful stopping 
165.    Vehicles approaching railway crossings 
 
PART  XIX—RULES  OF  DRIVING  AND  GENERAL  DUTIES  OF  DRIVER  OF  VEHICLES 
OR  PASSENGERS   ON  PUBLIC  ROAD 
166.    Use of communication devices while driving 
167.    Driving a vehicle on a public road in a dangerous or reckless manner 
168.    Protruding or tailing loads 
169.    Preaching or hawking in passenger carrying commercial vehicles 
 
PART  XX—SPECIAL  PROVISIONS   RELATING  TO  THE  DRIVING  OF  VEHICLES 
170.    Maximum hours of driving 
 
PART  XXI—HINDERING   OR  OBSTRUCTING  TRAFFIC  ON  PUBLIC  ROAD 
171.    Hindering or obstructing traffic on public road 
 
PART XXII—DAMAGE TO PUBLIC ROAD 
172.    Damage to road and road fittings 
 
PART  XXIII—PEDESTRIANS AND  PEDESTRIAN CROSSING 
173.    Compliance with traffic signals at Pedestrians crossings 
B 1525 
 
 
PART  XXIV—DRIVING  UNDER  THE  INFLUENCE  OF ALCOHOL  AND  DRUGS 
174.    Driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor 
175.    Prescribed alcohol limit 
176.    Penalty for refusal to be subjected to tests 
 
PART  XXV—REMOVAL  OF VEHICLES 
177.    Removal of vehicles from public roads 
178.    Custody fees 
179.    Provisions relating to removed Vehicles Park 
180.    Procedure for reclaiming removed vehicles 
181.    Certificate of release of removed vehicle 
182.    Failure to reclaim vehicle 
 
PART XXVI—SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO EXPRESSWAY 
183.    Permissible dimensions and weight for vehicles on the expressway 
184.    Prohibition of animals on the expressway 
185.    Prohibition of motorcycles 
186.    Agricultural machines on expressway 
187.    Loading, off-loading or stoppage on the expressway 
188.    Excess passengers and excess load 
189.    U-turns on expressway 
190.    Parking on expressway 
 
PART  XXVII—REPORTING  OF  ROAD  CRASHES 
191.    Reporting of road crashes 
192.    Procedure for investigating and recording road crashes 
193.    Duty of officers at the scene of crash 
 
PART  XXVIII—USE  OF  MOTORCYCLE   ON  PUBLIC  ROADS 
194.    Rules on use of motorcycle on public roads 
 
PART  XXIX—USE  OF  BICYCLES  ON  PUBLIC  ROADS 
195.    Rules on the use of bicycles on public roads and wearing of helmet 
 
PART XXX—PROVISIONS RELATING TO EXEMPTED BODIES 
 
196.    Exemption from payment of registration, examination and weighing fees 
197.    Exempted bodies 
B 1526 
 
 
 
PART  XXXI—SPECIAL  PROVISIONS   RELATING   TO  OPERATORS   OF 
TRANSPO RT   SERVICES 
198.    Establishment of safety unit by operators of transport services 
199.    Categories of transport service operators 
200.    Registration of commercial vehicle operators 
201.    Continuous education of commercial drivers 
202.    Code of ethics for transport associations and unions 
 
PART  XXXII—USE   AND  OPERATION  OF AMBULANCE   SERVICES 
203.    Permit for the operation of ambulance services 
204.    Colour of ambulances 
205.    Periodic examination of ambulances 
 
PART  XXXIII—OPERATION  OF  TOWING  VEHICLES 
206.    Requirements for towing vehicles 
207.    Operation of commercial towing vehicles 
 
PART  XXXIV—MISCELLANEOUS  MOTOR  TRAFFIC  REGULATIONS 
208.    Designation of premises as motor parks 
209.    Driving, parking on footways or pavement 
210.    Marks on vehicles to be clear and legible at all times 
211.    Power to inspect vehicles 
212.    Requirement to weigh or reweigh vehicles 
213.    Construction signs 
 
PART  XXXV—GENERAL  PROVISIONS 
214. Exemption of vehicles and plants used in construction and fire engine 
or pumps 
215.    Exemption in respect of registered Government vehicles 
216.    Public Road Codes 
217.    Road furniture, traffic signs, signals, notices, certification 
218.    Offences in relation to licences and permits under these Regulations 
219.    Omnibu s penalt y for failur e to compl y with provision s of these  
Regulations 
220.    Power to issue notice of offence or ticket 
221.    Power to prescribe additional precautionary measures 
222.    Amendment of Regulations 
223.    Prohibition of use of certain roads 
B 1527 
 
 
224.    Guidelines for states 
225.    Conflict with other Regulations 
226.    Fleeing or attempting to flee from a corps member 
227.    Disregarding signs on roads under construction 
228.    Prohibition of car and speed races 
229.    Information in relation to road traffic offenders 
230.    Revocation of the National Road Traffic Regulations, 2004 
231.    Interpretation 
232.    Citation 
 
SCHEDULES 
B 1528 
 
 
B 1529 
 
 
S. I.  61  of  2012 
 
FEDERAL ROAD SAFETY COMMISSION (ESTABLISHMENT) 
ACT, 2007 
 
NATIONAL ROAD TRAFFIC REGULATIONS, 2012 
 
[ 13th Day of August, 2012 ] 
 
In exercise of the powers conferred on it by section 5 of the Federal Road Safety 
Commission (Establishment)  Act, 2007 (‘the Act’) and of all other powers enabling it 
in that behalf, the FEDERAL ROAD SAFETY COMMISSION  (“Commission”) makes the following 
Regulations — 
Commen- 
cement. 
 
PART  I—OBJECTIVES  
 
1. The objectives of these Regulations are to— 
 
(a) give effect in Nigeria to the Geneva Convention on Road Traffic of 
September 19, 1949  and the Vienna Convention on Road Signs and Signals 
of November 8, 1968 ; and 
 
(b) provide operational requirements, rules and regulations for— 
(i) the registration and licencing of vehicles, 
(ii) establishment and regulation of driving schools, 
(iii) vehicle identification numbers, learner’s permit and driver’s licence, 
(iv) drivers and conductors registration and badges, 
(v) taxis, stage carriages, omnibuses and motorcycles for hire, 
(vi) use of school buses, speed limits, use of sirens, traffic signs and 
trafficators,  
(vii) road crossing, 
(viii) parking of vehicles, 
(ix) driving and general duties of driver of vehicles or passengers on 
public roads, 
(x) hindering or obstructing traffic on public road, 
(xi) damage to public road, 
(xii) pedestrian crossing, 
(xiii) driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs, 
(xiv) use and construction of vehicles and trailers 
(xv) special provisions relating to use of the expressway, 
(xvi) reporting of road crashes, and 
(xvii) motorcycle and bicycles on public roads. 
 
 
 
Objectives. 
B 1530 
 
 
 
(c) mak e provision s relatin g to exempte d bodies , operator s of 
transpor t services , operatio n of ambulanc e service s and towing 
vehicle s ; and 
(d)  provide miscellaneou s motor traffi c regulation s to ensure road 
safet y. 
 
 
 
Application 
for 
registration 
of vehicles. 
 
PART  II—REGISTR ATION  OF  VEHICLES 
 
2.—(1) Any person applying to register a vehicle shall submit to the 
appropriate authority an application for registration duly completed as in Form 
MVA 1 specified in Schedule 1 of these Regulations and pay to the authority the 
fees as may be prescribed and published by the Joint Tax Board from time to 
time. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registration 
and 
assignment 
of number 
plates and 
identification 
marks. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change of 
vehicle 
category. 
 
(2) An application to register a vehicle shall be accompanied by— 
(a) an invoice and payment receipt of an accredited motor vehicle dealer ; 
and 
(b) a certificate of payment or exemption from payment of import duty 
issued by or under the authority of the Nigeria Customs Service, where the 
vehicle is an imported vehicle. 
 
(3) An application to register 
 
(a) a trailer ; or 
(b) a commercial vehicle, 
 
with the axle weight or any of its axle exceeding 10 tonnes or tandem axles 
exceeding 16 tonnes gross weight, shall be accompanied by a permission in 
writing given under the provisions of regulation 55 of these Regulations. 
 
3.—(1) Subject to sub-regulation (3) of this regulation, the relevant Authority, 
shall on receipt of a proper application and fee, if any, register the particulars of 
the vehicle and issue a Vehicle Licence and if the vehicle was not previously 
registered in Nigeria, or if the vehicle was previously owned by an exempted 
body within the meaning of regulation 196 (2) of these Regulations, assign to it 
a number plate within the Local Government Code. 
 
(2) On registering a motor vehicle or trailer, the appropriate authority shall 
assign an identification mark which shall be registered in respect of the vehicle. 
 
(3) All auctioned vehicles may be assigned number plates provided the 
application is accompanied by evidence authorizing such auction and relevant 
payment receipt. 
 
4.—(1) Any vehicle whose category is to be changed may be assigned 
identification number provided it was previously registered. 
 
(2) Where vehicle whose category is to be changed was registered in any 
state other than the one in which the change of category is being sought, the 
B 1531 
 
 
change of category form must be accompanied by a certificate of clearance 
from the police. 
 
(3) If any person applies for a special identification number or mark in 
respect of a vehicle used by an exempted body, the Authority may, with the 
approval of the Principal Licensing Officer and on payment to the Authority of 
the prescribed fee, assign to the vehicle the special identification number or 
mark for which the application has been made as in Form MVA 3 of Schedule 1 
to these Regulations. 
 
5.—(1) Any person who wishes to register his vehicle in a code that is not 
in the series of codes being issued at the time, but is in the control of the Central 
Motor Registry, shall apply to the Authority for “Out of Series Registration” in 
the form prescribed under Figure 9 of Schedule 5 to these Regulations. 
 
(2) The Authority shall approve as it deems fit and the vehicle shall be so 
registered on the payment of the prescribed fee. 
 
(3) Any person who wishes to register a vehicle with a special or fancy number 
shall apply to the Authority giving details of the special or fancy number ; provided 
the special or fancy number shall not exceed eight digits made up of alphabets, 
numerals or combination of both and the authority shall approve as it deems fit and 
the vehicle shall be so registered on the payment of the prescribed fee. 
 
(4) An application for out of series, fancy and special identification number 
plates shall be as prescribed in Form MVA2 specified in Schedule 1 to these 
Regulations 
 
6. Any person who wishes to transfer the out of series or fancy number 
plates of any vehicle to another shall obtain a police clearance and attach same to 
his application to the Authority who may approve as deemed fit upon payment of 
the prescribed fee provided that the Authority shall be that of the State of last 
registration. 
 
7.—(1) Any person who wishes to re-register a vehicle shall apply, as 
specified in Form MVA3 of Schedule 1 to these Regulations, to the Authority 
stating reasons for the re-registration. 
 
(2) The application to re-register a vehicle under sub-regulation (1) of this 
regulation shall be accompanied with the original purchase documents and where 
the vehicle was originally registered in a State other than the one in which the re- 
registration is sought, the application shall be accompanied with a police clearance 
and clearance from the Authority of the last registration. 
 
(3) In addition to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation, no 
vehicle shall be registered except such vehicle has been examined and certified 
suitable by the Vehicle Inspection Officer. 
 
(4) The Commission or the Authority may, by Notice in the Federal or 
State Gazette, prohibit the registration of any vehicle or any category of vehicles 
which may be considered to be unsuitable for registration. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Out of series 
special 
number 
registration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer of 
out of series 
or fancy 
number 
plates.  
 
Registration 
of vehicle. 
B 1532 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Categories of 
registration 
of vehicles. 
(5) The Authority may refuse an application for registration of a vehicle if 
it is not satisfied that the applicant has attained the age of eighteen years or 
where there is a valid court order to that effect. 
 
8.—(1) A vehicle may be registered in any one of the following categories— 
(a) motorcycles ; 
(b) motorcycles with three wheels or side cars ; 
(c) private motor vehicle ; 
(d) trailer ; 
(e) taxi or hackney carriage authorised to carry not more than seven persons 
including the driver ; 
( f ) private car hire driven by the hirer or the owner’s driver ; 
(g) commercial vehicle authorised to carry goods and persons who are 
servants of the owner whilst in the employment of the owner ; 
(h) stage carriage authorised to carry not more than fifteen persons including 
the driver ; 
(i) stage carriage authorised to carry more than fifteen persons including the 
driver but subject to the provisions of regulation 95 (2) of these Regulations ; 
(j) omnibus ; 
(k) private omnibus used for the free conveyance of  employees ; 
(l) agricultural vehicle ; 
(m)  tractor ; 
(n) vehicl e exclusivel y designe d for use as plant or machiner y for 
construction ; and 
(o) fire engines or trailer pump. 
 
(2) A vehicle may be registered in categories (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of 
regulation (1) of this regulation if— 
 
(a) the vehicle is operated primarily for hire or reward ; 
 
(b) a certificate of road-worthiness issued by the Vehicle Inspection Officer 
under regulation 142 of these Regulations is produced at the time of the 
application to licence the vehicle ; 
 
(c) the vehicle conforms with the provisions of regulation 116 of these 
Regulations ; or 
 
(d) the condition of the vehicle is, in the opinion of the appropriate authority, 
safe and suitable for the conveyance of passengers or goods, and conforms 
with the provisions of Parts VII and X of these Regulations. 
B 1533 
 
 
(3)   A vehicle may be registere d as a trailer under this Part of these 
Regulations if— 
(a) it is a vehicle designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle ; 
(b) a certificate of road-worthiness issued under regulation 142 of these 
Regulations is produced at the time of application for registration ; and 
(c) the trailer conforms with the provisions of regulation 140 of these 
Regulations. 
 
(4) A vehicle may be registered as agriculture machine if— 
 
(a) the vehicle is intended to be used on any public road in passing from 
land in private occupation to other land in such occupation ; 
(b) it is registered in the name of a person engaged in agriculture, timber 
trade or mining ; or 
(c) it is not used on a public road for hauling any objects except for 
agricultural land. 
 
(5) A vehicle may be registered as tractor under this part of these Regulations 
if the vehicle is used on a public road solely for the purpose of haulage, and 
should not have super imposed upon it, any load except as may be necessary for 
its propulsion or equipment. 
 
9.—(1) Before a vehicle is registered, the appropriate authority may, if 
facilities for weighing the vehicle are available, require the net weight of the 
vehicle to be ascertained and shall certify the weight of the vehicle and make any 
necessary correction in the statement of weight declared by the owner or where 
the facilities for weighing are not available may require the owner of the vehicle 
to produce a certificate of the weight thereof issued by the manufacturer or a 
competent authority. 
 
(2) The fee as may be determined and published by the Joint Tax Board 
from time to time, shall be payable by the owner in respect of any ascertainment 
of weight required to be effected under sub-regulation (1) of this regulation ; 
 
(3) The appropriate authority may, at any reasonable time, require a vehicle 
to be re-weighed free of charge. 
 
(4) The owner of a vehicle shall cause the vehicle to be driven or brought 
to an appropriate place which the appropriate authority may direct for the purpose 
of weighing. 
 
10.—(1) A registration book as specified in Form MVA 4 of Schedule 1 of 
these Regulations shall be issued by the appropriate Authority to the owner of a 
vehicle upon the payment of the prescribed registration fee and shall constitute 
the permanent record of the vehicle. 
 
(2) The registration book shall be required to be in the vehicle and liable to 
be produced on demand by any appropriate authority. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ascertainment 
of weight 
before 
registration. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registration 
book. 
B 1534 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notification 
of change of 
vehicle 
category. 
 
 
 
 
 
Change of 
vehicle 
ownership.  
(3) Any driver who fails to comply with the provisions of sub-regulation 
(2) of this regulation commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a 
fine not exceeding N1,000:00 or to imprisonment for a term of six months or to 
both such fine and imprisonment. 
 
(4) The provisions of sub-regulation (3) of this regulation shall not apply 
to a person who has : 
(a) lost the registration book and applied for a replacement ; or 
(b) deposited the registration book with the appropriate authority. 
 
(5) Where the owner of a vehicle shows to the satisfaction of the appropriate 
Authority that— 
 
(a) he is unable to obtain the registration book from a previous owner of 
the vehicle ; 
(b) the registration book has been lost, stolen or defaced ; 
(c) a replacement of the registration book was not issued by the authority 
to the owner upon payment by him of the prescribed fee ; or 
(d) he has a certificate in lieu of custom papers or any other good cause 
that his dealer has not given him any letter of custom clearance ; 
 
the appropriate Authority may register the vehicle. 
 
(6) The owner of the vehicle shall be required to inform the Authority 
within a period of 4 weeks of any change of his address as shown in the registration 
book. 
 
11. Subject to the provisions of regulation 8 of these Regulations, where 
there is a change in the category of any vehicle which affects the particulars 
entered in its registration book, the owner of such vehicle shall immediately 
inform the nearest Authority of the change as in Form MVA3 specified in Schedule 
1 to these Regulations and the appropriate Authority shall thereupon, without 
payment of any fee, amend the registration book provided that the change or 
amendment is genuine. 
 
12.—(1) Where the ownership of a vehicle is changed, the former owner 
or the new owner of the vehicle shall give a notice of the change to the appropriate 
Authority as in Form MVA 5 of Schedule 1 to these Regulations and the new 
owner shall pay to the Authority the fee as may be prescribed by the Joint Tax 
Board. 
 
(2) The former owner of the vehicle referred to in sub-regulation (1) of 
this regulation shall present the registration book to the Authority who shall 
record details of the change of ownership and hand over the registration book to 
the new owner. 
 
(3) The notice referred to in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall be 
given by the former owner or the new owner not later than 30 days after the 
B 1535 
 
 
date of the actual change of ownership and where the notice relates to a vehicle 
which was importe d into Nigeria free of import duty, the notice shall be 
accompanied by a certificate of payment of import duty or exemption there 
from issued to the new owner by the Nigeria Customs Service. 
 
(4) The appropriate Authority shall effect every change of ownership in its 
register . 
 
13.—(1) Where the colour of a vehicle is to be changed, the owner shall 
apply for approval from the Authority in Form MVA 6 of Schedule 1 to these 
Regulations and unless such an application is approved, the owner of the vehicle 
shall be restrained from changing the colour of the vehicle. 
 
(2) A new vehicle licence shall be issued after payment of the fees prescribed 
to reflect the new colour of the vehicle and the old vehicle licence shall be 
withdrawn from the owner. 
 
(3) Any alteration or change in the particulars of the vehicle shall be reflected 
in the registration book by the appropriate Authority. 
 
(4) Where the colour of a vehicle is changed without due approval, the 
licence of such a vehicle shall become invalid and the owner of the vehicle has 
committed an offence under these Regulations and shall be liable on conviction 
to a fine of N3,000:00 or to imprisonment for a term of 6 months or both. 
 
14. Where there is a replacement of the engine of a registered vehicle, the 
owner shall notify the Authority as in Form MVA 7 in Schedule 1 and shall pay 
the prescribed fee. 
 
15. Where a vehicle is to be parked for a long time and an application has 
been presented to the appropriate authority— 
 
(a) the appropriate authority shall cancel the Vehicle Licence and issue to 
the owner a Lay-off Certificate ; 
(b) road user charges in respect of a vehicle for which a Vehicle Licence 
has not been cancelled shall be payable by the owner until the Lay-off 
Certificate is obtained ; 
(c) where a vehicle is brought back for use on the road after a  temporary 
lay-off without cancellation of the Vehicle Licence, the outstanding road user 
charges in respect of the vehicle shall become payable ; and 
(d) the appropriate authority shall issue a form for reporting vehicles for 
lay-off. 
 
16. Where a vehicl e has been destroyed , broke n up or permanently 
immobilized or removed from the road or Nigeria- 
(a) the owner of such a vehicle shall inform the appropriate authority in 
writing ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change of 
vehicle 
colour. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Replacement 
of a vehicle 
engine. 
 
Vehicle lay- 
off 
certificate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Procedure 
for 
destroyed 
vehicles. 
B 1536 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The role of 
appropriate 
authorit y. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Storage and 
provision of 
vehicle 
particulars. 
 
Unauthorised 
entry in the 
registration 
book. 
 
 
 
 
 
Withdrawal 
of 
registration. 
(b) where the appropriate authority is satisfied that a registered vehicle has 
been destroyed, broken up, permanently immobilized or removed from the 
road or Nigeria, the appropriate authority shall cancel the entries in the register 
in respect of the vehicle ; and 
(c) notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulation (b) of this regulation, 
where the appropriate authority is satisfied that a registered vehicle has been 
destroyed or is permanently removed from Nigeria, the appropriate authority 
shall cancel the vehicle licence after a written notice of not less than 90 days 
has been given to the owner of the vehicle. 
 
17.—(1) The appropriate authority shall— 
 
(a) keep registers of licences, revocations, cancellations, withdrawals and 
renewals of licences in the prescribed form ; 
(b) on application by an authorised law enforcement officer, provide free 
of charge a copy of the particulars in the register relating to the licence granted ; 
(c) supply to any other authorised person applying for a copy of the entry 
relating to any licence, a copy of those entries on payment of the prescribed 
fees ; and 
(d) at reasonable times upon request by any public officer acting in an 
official capacity, make available copies of the entries in the register without 
charge. 
 
(2) The appropriate authority shall make available, copies of any records, 
documents or particulars in respect of a vehicle whenever requested. 
 
18. The Commission shall keep all copies of licences and other documents 
furnished in pursuance of these Regulations at the Central Data Base and shall on 
request by the appropriate authority supply such particulars in relation thereto. 
 
19.  Any person who— 
 
(a) makes an unauthorised entry or alteration in the registration book relating 
to a vehicle ; or 
(b) wilfully destroys or defaces any entry in the registration book, 
 
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N20,000:00 or 
imprisonment for a term of 6 months or to both such fine and imprisonment. 
 
20. The appropriate authority may in cases of non - compliance with the 
provisions of these Regulations or any other law— 
 
(a) determine whether to withdraw a registration number for the time 
being assigned to a motor vehicle or trailer ; and 
(b) shall upon a withdrawal made under paragraph (a) of this regulation, 
make the necessary and consequential amendments to the register and the 
motor vehicle or trailer registration certificate. 
B 1537 
 
 
21. Any person who has been refused registration of a vehicle or whose 
registration of vehicle has been withdrawn in accordance with these Regulations 
may appeal to a Magistrate Court which may after hearing both parties give 
such directions as it may deem fit under the circumstances. 
 
PART  III—LICENCES   FOR  VEHICLES 
 
22. Subject to the provisions of these Regulations, the Authority may issue 
a vehicle licence for a period of twelve or six months as in Form MVA 8 of 
Schedule 1 to these Regulations upon the payment of the fees as may be prescribed 
by the Joint Tax Board and subject to the production of a registration book, 
current certificate of insurance and certificate of road worthiness. 
 
23.—(1) The Commission may by notice published in the Federal Gazette 
or by direct instruction prohibit the registration of or licensing of a class or type 
of vehicle considered to be unsuitable for any particular mode of usage and the 
Authority shall accordingly not issue a licence, in respect of such class of vehicles. 
 
(2) The Authority shall not issue a licence for any vehicle— 
 
(a) the condition of which, in its opinion, is such as to render its use on the 
public road a contravention of these Regulations ; or 
(b) so constructed or in such condition, mechanically or otherwise, as in 
its opinion likely to be dangerous to other road users or likely to cause damage 
to the public road or bridges. 
 
(3) No vehicle shall be licenced for a gross weight other than that registered 
in respect of such vehicle in accordance with these Regulations. 
 
(4) For the purpose of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation, the appropriate 
authority may, at any time, require any vehicle to be produced by such person 
and at such time and place for inspection as may be appointed. 
 
24. A person to whom a licence has been refused in accordance with this 
Part of these Regulations may appeal to a Magistrate Court in the state within 
which the licence is issued. 
 
25.—(1) Where any person to whom a vehicle licence has been issued in 
accordance with regulation 22 of these Regulations satisfies the Authority in the 
State within which the original licence was issued that the vehicle in respect of 
which the licence has been issued shall not be used in Nigeria during the unexpired 
duration of the licence, the Authority may refund to that person a portion of the 
fee paid for the licence and that portion shall be equivalent to one-twelfth of the 
annual licence fee payable multiplied by the unexpired duration. 
 
(2) Before a refund is made under this regulation, the licence and the 
counterfoil thereof shall be surrendered to the relevant Authority which shall 
thereafter— 
(a) cause the licence to be cancelled ; 
Appeal.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issuance of 
vehicle 
licence. 
 
 
 
 
Power to 
refuse 
registration 
in certain 
cases. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appeal.  
 
 
 
Refund of 
portion of 
vehicle 
licence fee 
paid. 
B 1538 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Display of 
vehicle 
licence. 
(b) cause the cancellation to be entered in the registration book of the 
vehicle ; and 
(c) inform the Central Data Base of the cancellation. 
 
(3) When a refund is made under this regulation, the vehicle in respect of 
which the licence was issued shall for the purpose of these Regulations be 
deemed to be unlicenced during the period in respect of which the refund has 
been made. 
 
26.—(1) The owner, driver or person in charge or control of a vehicle 
shall at all times when the vehicle is being used on any public road keep the 
current licence of the vehicle displayed in the manner hereinafter provided, and 
shall, on demand, permit any appropriate authority to examine the licence. 
 
(2) Licences, other than trade licences, shall be displayed in a weather- 
proof holder with a transparent cover and carried on the vehicle and in the case 
of— 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Replacement 
of defaced or 
lost licence. 
 
(a) motorcycles or trailers, in a conspicuous position on the near side of 
the vehicle not more than 76.20 centimetres from the front of the motorcycle 
or trailer ; 
(b) motorcycles with side car, on the near side of the handle bar of the 
cycle or the near side of the side car ; 
(c) in the case of a vehicle fitted with a front glass windscreen extending 
across the vehicle, to the near lower corner of the glass of such windscreen 
or in such other manner so as to be clearly visible from the front  at all times 
by daylight whether such vehicle is moving or stationary; and in the event of 
the licence being carried actually upon a glass portion of the vehicle and 
otherwise complying with these Regulations the obligation that the licence 
shall be carried in a weather-proof holder with a transparent cover shall not 
apply ; and 
(d) all other vehicles, on the near side of the vehicle facing the near side of 
the road and not less than one metre nor more than two metres from the 
ground level and placed as near to the front seat as is practicable. 
 
(3) Except when placed on or adjacent to the windscreen, the licence shall 
be placed and carried, so as to be clearly visible at all times by daylight to a 
person standing at the near side of the vehicle, whether such vehicle is moving 
or stationary. 
 
(4) In the case of vehicle issued with a trade licence, such licence shall be 
displayed on the front plate bearing the trade number plates issued in respect of 
such licence. 
 
27.—(1)    Subject to sub-regulation (2) of this regulation, the appropriate 
Authority shall issue a new licence to the holder of a current licence under this 
Part of these Regulations, if the holder of the licence satisfies the relevant Authority 
that the— 
B 1539 
 
 
(a) licence has been defaced or mutilated ; 
(b) figures and particulars thereof have become illegible ; or 
(c) licence has been lost or stolen, 
 
and the new licence shall have the same effect as the original licence. 
 
(2) Before issuing a licence under sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, the 
appropriate Authority shall demand the production of the holder’s registration 
book as proof of issue of the original licence. 
 
(3) In the case of a loss or stolen licence, the owner shall be required to 
produce the Police Extract or report and a duly sworn affidavit stating clearly 
the particulars and facts of loss before a new licence may be issued after the 
payment of the prescribed fee. 
 
28.—(1) When the ownership of a vehicle is transferred in accordance 
with regulation 12 of these Regulations— 
 
(a) the existing licence shall be valid until the expiry date on it where the 
new owner does not intend to use the vehicle for any purpose other than that 
for which it is classified and registered ; and 
(b) in all other cases, a refund may be made to the former owner of the 
vehicle for the unexpired duration of the licence and the vehicle shall be re- 
licenced upon payment of the prescribed fee. 
 
(2) Where the new owner fails to comply with this regulation, the existing 
licences shall cease to be valid. 
 
29.—(1) When a registration book has been amended in accordance with 
regulation 10, the existing licence shall remain valid until the expiry date, unless 
the registration category or character of the vehicle has been so changed as to 
render payable a licence fee at a higher or lower rate than that paid on the 
issuance of the existing licence. 
 
(2) Where a higher or lower licence fee becomes payable, a refund may be 
made to the former owner of the vehicle for the unexpired duration of the licence 
and the vehicle shall be re-licenced upon payment of the prescribed fee. 
 
PART  IV—SPECIAL  TRADE  LICENCE 
 
30.—(1) A special trade licence specified in Form MVA 10 of Schedule 1 
to these Regulations, may be issued by the Authority to a dealer on payment of 
the prescribed fee and the licence shall be so stamped indicating the type of 
trade licence. 
 
(2) Before a special trade licence can be issued, the applicant must have 
furnished the Authority with his data as prescribed in Form MVA 10 of Schedule 
1 to these Regulations. 
 
(3) A dealer may obtain any number of trade licences provided that no 
trade licence shall be issued for use in respect of any vehicle except— 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change of 
licence upon 
change of 
ownership.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Licence or 
change of 
vehicle 
classification. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special trade 
licence. 
B 1540 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trade 
identification 
number or 
mark. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appeals.  
(a) when a vehicle having been off-loaded from a ship, lighter, train or 
other road vehicle is being driven to the dealer’s place of business ; 
(b) when a vehicle is being tested after having been received, assembled or 
repaired at the dealer’s place of business ; 
(c) when a vehicle is being tested by or on behalf of an intending purchaser 
or of the owner in the case of vehicle undergoing repairs ; 
(d) when a new vehicle or one under repairs is being transferred by a 
dealer in the normal course of business ; or 
(e) when a new vehicle or one which has been repaired is in process of 
delivery to the purchaser. 
 
31. A trade licence shall be issued with a trade number plate as shown in 
figure 10 of Schedule 5 to these Regulations consisting of the National flag 
symbol, name of authorised dealer, dealer’s code, State code, dealer’s number 
(alpha-numeric), individual vehicle code (alpha-numeric) and words “Federal 
Republic of Nigeria” and the particulars of each trade licence shall be entered in 
a special register kept for that purpose by the Authority provided that trade 
identification number plates shall only be issued to motor vehicle dealers and 
mechani c worksho p operator s and the ones issued to mechani c workshop 
operators shall only be used on vehicles during road tests. 
 
32. A person to whom a trade licence has been refused may appeal to any 
Magistrate Court. 
 
(1) A trade licence shall not— 
(a) authorise— 
(i) the carrying of fee-paying passengers or goods for reward ; or 
(ii) the carrying of any person not engaged in testing the vehicle or 
inspecting the vehicle with a view to purchasing same ; or 
(b) be used between the hours of 6 p.m. and 6 a.m. 
 
(2) Any person using a trade licence, except for the purpose authorised by 
these Regulations, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of 
N2,000 or to imprisonmen t for a term of 1 year or to both such fine and 
imprisonment. 
 
(3) Any person who operates as a motor vehicle dealer without obtaining 
the appropriate trade licence commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction 
to a fine of N3,000:00 or to a term of 1 year imprisonment  or to both. 
 
(4) A motor vehicle dealer shall be required to keep a record of journeys 
made by vehicles operating under a trade licence and the record shall be open for 
inspection by the appropriate Authority. 
 
(5) Subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation, a 
trade licence issued in any State shall be valid in any other State until the expiry 
date indicated on such licence. 
B 1541 
 
 
(6) A trade licence in this regulation includes— 
 
(a) licences for motor vehicle and motorcycle dealers ; 
(b) licences for spare parts dealers to engage in the sales and distribution 
of motor vehicle and motorcycle spare parts ; 
(c) licences for mechanic workshops to engage in the business of motor 
vehicle repairs and servicing. 
 
(7) The procedure for obtaining a trade licence and registration— 
 
(a) as a spare parts dealer is as specified in Form MVA 10A of Schedule 1 
to these Regulations ; 
(b) as a motor mechanic is as specified in Form MVA 10B of Schedule 1 to 
these Regulations ; and 
(c) as a vehicle motorcycle dealer is as specified in Form MVA10C of 
Schedule 1 to these Regulations. 
 
(8) For the purpose of this Part of these Regulations, “a dealer” includes a 
motor vehicle, motorcycle and motor spare parts dealer. 
 
PART  V—ESTABLISHMENT  AND  REGULATION   OF  DRIVING  SCHOOLS 
 
33.—(1) The Commission shall— 
 
(a) establish a model driving school in each State of the Federation and 
Federal Capital Territory ; 
(b) regulate the establishment and registration of private and Government 
owned driving schools in Nigeria ; and 
(c) set guidelines for the establishment of such driving schools. 
 
(2) The registration of the driving schools shall be as specified in Form 
MVA 10D of Schedule 1 to these Regulations and no driving school shall be 
registered unless the prescribed fee is paid to the Authority. 
 
(3) The Commission shall, from time to time, inspect all registered driving 
schools to ensure that the operator s conform to standard s specified by the 
Commission. 
 
(4) The Commission shall issue a permit to all registered driving schools in 
accordance with sub-regulation (1) of this regulation. 
 
(5) Every private driving school shall be operated by a registered instructor 
for the purpose of operating as a driving school. 
 
34.—(1) A permit showing registration shall be issued to an instructor 
following an application made personally in the following circumstances— 
(a) after a successfu l completio n of a course of instructo r’s training 
organized by the Commission ; 
 
 
Establishment 
and 
registration 
of driving 
schools. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructo r’s 
permit.  
B 1542 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Training 
instructors.  
(b) the proposed instructor shall have shown ownership of at least two 
vehicles and an office to be used for the purpose of the driving school ; and 
(c) the said vehicles and office shall have been inspected by an inspecting 
officer and a satisfactory report made to the Commission. 
 
(2) The period from the application to the issuance of the permit shall not 
exceed 4 weeks. 
 
(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this regulation commits 
an offenc e and liabl e on convictio n to a fine of N2,000:0 0 or 6 months 
imprisonment or to both. 
 
(4) In addition to the penalty in sub-regulation (3) of this regulation, the 
Commission shall have power to close down the driving school until the driving 
school complies fully with the provisions of these Regulations. 
 
35.—(1) A person shall not act as an instructor in accordance with these 
Regulations unless he is— 
(a) registered and licenced in accordance with the provisions of these 
Regulations ; 
(b) of good character ; and 
(c) mentally and physically fit to act as an instructor. 
 
(2) A person referred to in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall only 
be registered or licenced in respect of a class of motor vehicle which he or she 
is licenced to drive. 
 
(3) An instructor shall not give driving lessons to any person in respect of 
a class of vehicle for which he has not been licenced or approved and any 
person in contravention of this provision commits an offence and shall be liable 
on conviction to a term of imprisonment for 6 months or a fine of N2,000:00 or 
to both. 
 
 
 
Vehicle 
identification 
number 
plates.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Display of 
number 
plates.  
 
PART  VI—VEHICLE  IDENTIFIC ATION  NUMBERS 
 
36. All private and commercial vehicles shall as from the commencement 
of these Regulations have on them Vehicle Identification Number Plates which 
shall— 
 
(a) be carried by the motor vehicle on two plates which shall conform to 
the requirements of these Regulations ; and 
(b) the number plate shall be fixed— 
(i) in such a manner that each is not easily detachable ; and 
(ii) in an upright position or within 15 degrees of such position ; 
 
37.—(1) The Identification Number Plates carried by a motor vehicle or 
articulated vehicle shall be displayed on two plates for a motor vehicle and three 
plates for an articulated vehicle and shall conform as to lettering, numbering and 
B 1543 
 
 
otherwise with the provisions set out in figures 1-11 of Schedule 5 to these 
Regulations. 
 
(2) The number plates shall in respect of— 
 
(a) a motor vehicle be fixed, one on the front of the vehicle and the other 
at the centre or on the off-side of the rear of the vehicle or as may be provided 
by the manufacturer : 
(b) a trailer, be fixed one on the front of the vehicle and two at the rear of 
the trailer in an upright position ; 
(c) a motorcycle, one plate shall be fixed in front and one at the rear with 
the plate having white background but blue lettering for private, green lettering 
for the Federal, State or Local Government, black lettering for the Armed 
Forces, Para-military Services and red lettering for commercial, so that every 
letter or figure on the plate is up-right and easily distinguishable in the case of 
the front plate from behind. 
 
(3) In the case of the recovery of a semi-trailer, the operator of the prime- 
mover shall be required to ensure that the entire articulated vehicle carries the 
same identification number in respect of the prime mover and the semi-trailer. 
 
(4) Each Identification Number Plate must be reflective and so made that 
any letter, numeral or other identifying mark displayed on it are legible at day 
time and at night in clear weather and must be visible and recognizable at a 
distance of not less than 60 metres by the driver of the immediate following 
vehicle and in the case of motorcycle at a distance of 30 metres. 
 
38.—(1) A vehicle shall carry a Vehicle Tag as specified in Form MVA 25 
of Schedule 5 to these Regulations which shall be issued along with the Vehicle 
Number Plate and shall carry the same number with the plate and be affixed to 
the rear windscreen. 
 
(2) Except as otherwise provided under these Regulations— 
 
(a) a number plates shall be transferred from one vehicle or trailer to 
another ; 
(b) Number Plates shall be attached to a person and not to a vehicle ; 
(c) Number Plates shall be returned to the Motor Licencing Authority on 
sale of a car and the new owner shall obtain new set of number plates ; and 
(d) proof of Ownershi p Certificat e is mandator y for issuance of new 
number plates. 
 
(3) A person convicted of an offence under sub-regulation (1) of this 
regulation is liable to a fine of N3,000 or imprisonment for a term of 6 months or 
to both. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vehicle 
identification 
tag. 
B 1544 
 
 
Vehicle 
identification 
number plate 
figures. 
39.—(1) The form of Identification Number Plates referred to in sub- 
regulation (1) of this regulation shall be rectangular with dimensions of 30.80cm 
(12.125) by 15.56cm (6.125) for vehicles and 22.9cm (9") by 10.2cm (4") 
using 1 inch (2.54cm) for motorcycles both with white background as shown 
in figures 1 and 2 in Schedule 5 of these Regulations. 
 
(2) Private Number Plates shall— 
 
(a) have the name of the State in black, the licensing office code number, 
the vehicle registration number and Local Government code number in blue ; 
(b) for commercial vehicles, have the name of the State in black, the 
licensing office code number, the vehicle registration number and Local 
Government code number in red ; 
(c) for Federal and State Government vehicles, have the name of the Ministry 
or Parastatal and the code number in green ; 
(d) for Local Government and Area Councils, have the name of the State in 
black, the Local Government Area Council identification code, the vehicle 
registration number and the name of the Local Government code in green ; 
and 
(e) for the Military and Para-Military vehicles, have the name and the code 
of the Armed Forces and Para-Military, the vehicle group code, issuing office 
code in black. 
 
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulation (10) of this regulation, 
the number plate of vehicles referred to in— 
 
(a) regulation (a) and (b) of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation shall have 
the symbol of the National flag on the top left corner and the Federal Republic 
of Nigeria in black as specified in figure 3 of Schedule 5 to these Regulations ; 
(b) regulation (c) and (d) of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation shall have 
the National Coat of Arm in the top left corner and the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria in black as specified in figure 5 of Schedule 5 to these Regulations ; 
(c) regulation ( e) of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation shall have the 
National Coat of Arm in the top left corner in black and the Federal Republic 
of Nigeria also in black as specified in figure 4 of Schedule 5 to these 
Regulations. 
 
(4) All vehicle number plates shall have— 
 
(a) a Local Government Code for private and commercial vehicles as set 
out in figure 5 of Schedule 5 to these Regulations ; 
(b) Federal, State or Local Government Codes for government vehicles as 
set out in figure 7 of Schedule 5 to these Regulations ; 
(c) codes of military and all other government agencies as set out in figure 
7 of Schedule 5 to these Regulations ; 
B 1545 
 
 
(d) codes of Para-military vehicles as set out in figure 8 of Schedule 5 to 
these Regulations ; 
(e) codes for diplomatic vehicles as set out in figure 11 of Schedule 5 to 
these Regulations ; and 
( f ) Local Government Area codes shall come first in respect of Private, 
Commercial and Local Government Area vehicles. 
 
(5) The Commission shall determine, from time to time, the appropriate 
number codes for all categories of vehicles ; 
 
(6) In the case of a loss or damage to a vehicle number plate or a vehicle 
identification tag, the owner of the vehicle or the driver shall— 
 
(a) report the particulars of loss immediately to the nearest Police Station 
or a Licensing Officer ; 
(b) prove ownership of the lost plate by swearing to an affidavit stating the 
loss ; and 
(c) pay the prescribed fee to the appropriate authority for a replacement of 
the lost number plate or identification tag. 
 
(7) The owner of the vehicle or the driver may, where the necessary 
particulars of loss have been reported, construct a temporary number plate in 
the form of wood which shall conform to colouring, lettering codes, etc. as 
outlined in the provisions of this regulation. 
 
(8) A temporary number plate shall be sufficient as the number plate until a new 
one is issued by the Authority within 14 days of payment of the replacement fee. 
 
(9) All vehicles, private and commercial, shall as from the commencement 
of these Regulations, have on them the Vehicle Identification Number Plates 
referred to in this regulation and it shall be an offence for any vehicle not to have 
the said Identification Number Plates. 
 
(10) The Commission shall be responsible for the production of Vehicle 
Identification Number Plates for the Federation. 
 
(11) It shall be an offence for an officer of the Authority to issue or allocate 
Vehicle Identification Number Plates before the production of the said number 
plates or mark by the Commission. 
 
40. The fees for road charges shall be as determined and published by the 
Joint Tax Board (JTB), as specified under Schedule 14 to these Regulations, 
from time to time. 
 
41.—(1) There shall be Proof of Ownership Certificate for all registered 
vehicles the format of which shall be as in Form MVA 9 of Schedule 1 to these 
Regulations or as may be determined by the Commission from time to time as 
specified in Schedule 14 to these Regulations. 
 
(2) A person who commits an offence under this Part shall where no 
penalty is provided be liable on conviction to a fine of N500:00 for every day the 
offence is committed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Road charges. 
 
 
 
Proof of 
ownership 
certificate. 
B 1546 
 
 
 
 
 
Application 
for learner’s 
permit.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forged 
permit.  
 
 
Classes of 
licence. 
PART  VII—LEARNER’S  PERMIT  AND  DRIVER’S  LICENCE 
 
42.—(1) Subject to the provisions of these Regulations, an applicant for a 
Learner’s Permit shall pay the prescribed fees and shall be granted a Learner’s 
Permit which shall entitle him to drive a motor vehicle of the group or type 
stated in the permit for a period not exceeding three months from the date of 
issuance of the Learner’s Permit. 
 
(2) An application for a Learner’s Permit shall be in the prescribed form 
MVA 15 of Schedule 1 to these Regulations. 
 
(3) An application for a Learner’s Permit shall be accompanied by two 
passport photographs of the applicant not larger than 25mm by 30mm. 
 
(4) Where the holder of a Learner’s Permit— 
 
(a) fails to complete a driving test as organized by a licenced instructor ; or 
(b) takes a test and fails. 
 
he shall be entitled to apply for another Learner’s Permit but not before the 
expiration of one calendar month from the date of the previous test. 
 
(5) The holder of a Learner’s Permit shall not carry any passenger except 
a licenced driver or certified instructor licenced to drive the category of vehicle 
being driven. 
 
(6) The holder of a Learner’s Permit shall not drive without a licenced 
driver or instructor sitting by his side at the passenger’s seat. 
 
43. Any person who while driving a motor vehicle uses a forged permit, 
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N20,000:00 or 
to a term of 1 year imprisonment or to both. 
 
44.—(1) Driver’s licence or Learner’s Permit to drive motor vehicles shall 
be in one or more of the following classes— 
 
(a) Class A 
(b) Class B 
— 
— 
motorcycle ; 
a motor vehicle of less than   three   tonnes 
  gros s   weigh t   othe r   tha n   motorcycle  
commercial, taxi, stage carriage or omnibus ; 
(c) Class C — a motor vehicle of less than three tonnes gross 
weight, other than motorcycles ; 
(d) Class D — a motor vehicle, other than motorcycle, taxi, 
stage carriage or omnibus but excluding an 
articulated vehicle or vehicle drawing a trailer ; 
(e) Class E — a motor vehicl e other than motorcycl e or 
articulated vehicle ; 
(f) Class F        —                agricultural machines and tractors ; 
B 1547 
 
 
(g) Class G — articulated vehicles ; 
(h) Class H — earth-moving vehicles ; and 
(i) Class J — special, for physically handicapped persons ; 
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, 
a person may be authorised to have a combination of two or more of the Classes. 
 
45.—(1) An applicant for a fresh driver’s licence shall furnish evidence of 
trainin g at an approved driving school and a learner’s permit and shall be 
accompanied with a certificate of visual acuity test and general medical fitness 
test as prescribed in regulation 52 (1) of these Regulations. 
 
(2) A person not below the age of 18 years who desires to obtain a driver’s 
licence shall, subject to the provision of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, 
lodge with the Authority the appropriate application form as in Form MVA11 
specified in Schedule 1 to these Regulations. 
 
(3) A person not below the age of 18 years who desires to obtain a Private 
Class driver’s licence shall— 
 
(a) attend and pass driver’s training at any Driving School certified by the 
Commission ; 
(b) fill the application form for driver’s licence electronically or at any of the 
Commission’s Driver’s Licence Centers or States Board of Internal Revenue ; 
(c)  obtain medical certificate of fitness as provided in regulation 57(3) of 
these Regulations from any Government Hospital ; 
(d)   attend and pass a driving test conducted by the Vehicle Inspection 
Officer or by other appropriate authority ; 
(e)  pay the prescribed fee at any designated bank and presents the bank 
teller at Driver’s Licence Center of the Commission ; and 
(f ) present himself for Biometric Capturing at the Driver’s Licence Center 
of the Commission and receives temporary driver’s Licence immediately after 
physical capture. 
 
(4)   A  person not below the age of 26 years who desires to obtain a 
commercial or professional driver’s licence shall— 
 
(a)  posses a private driver’s licence ; 
(b)  presents evidence of membership of professional association such as 
National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and National Association 
of Road Transport Owners (NARTO), or letter of employment by a registered 
transport company ; 
(c)   obtain medical certificate of fitness as provided in regulation 57(3) 
from any Government Hospital ; 
(d)   attend and pass a driving test conducted by the Vehicle Inspection 
Officer or by other appropriate authority ; 
 
 
 
Application 
for a fresh 
drivers’ 
licence. 
B 1548 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renewal of 
driver’s 
licence. 
(e)  pay the prescribed fee at any designated bank and presents the bank 
teller at Driver’s Licence Center of the Commission ; and 
(f ) present himself for Biometric Capturing at the Driver’s Licence Center 
of the Commission and receives temporary driver’s Licence immediately after 
physical capture. 
 
(5)  The temporary Private Class and commercial or professional driver’s 
licence shall be valid for 60 days and on expiration of the temporary driver’s 
licence the applicant shall collect the driver’s licence at State Board of Internal 
Revenue. 
 
(6)   A person not below the age of 18 years who desires to obtain a 
Diplomatic driver’s licence (Private Class) shall— 
 
(a)  be in possession of a driver’s licence from country of origin ; 
(b)  present letter of introduction from Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the 
Driver’s Licence Centre’s of the Commission ; 
(c)   attend and pass a driving test conducted by the Vehicle Inspection 
Officer or by any other appropriate authority ; and 
(d) present himself for Biometric Capturing at the Driver’s Licence Center 
of the Commission and receives temporary driver’s Licence immediately after 
physical capture. 
 
(7)  The validity period for diplomatic driver’s licence is three years and 
may be renewed thereafter. 
 
(8)  The temporary driver’s licence is valid for 60 days and on expiration 
of the temporary driver’s licence the applicant shall collect the driver’s licence 
from the Commission through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 
 
(9)  An applicant for renewal of diplomatic driver’s must fulfill all the 
requirements and procedures stated in sub-regulation (6) of this regulation 
provided that applicant between the ages of 18 and 25 years shall be tested 
annually before renewal of diplomatic driver’s licence. 
 
46.—(1) The holder of a valid licence may apply for and obtain a renewal 
of the licence referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 45 of these Regulations 
at any time within a period of one calendar month before the expiry date of the 
licence. 
 
(2) An application for the renewal of licence shall be in Form MVA 12 of 
Schedule 1 to these Regulations : 
 
(3) Subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, the 
renewal of a driver’s licence shall take effect from the date of the receipt by the 
Authority or a duly completed application form. 
 
(4) All applicants for renewal of driver’s licence shall undergo a driving 
test in accordance with regulation 56 of these Regulations if six months have 
elapsed since the person last held a valid driver’s licence 
B 1549 
 
 
(5) It shall be an offence under these Regulations for an unlicenced person 
and a person below 18 years to drive a vehicle or ride a motorcycle on any 
public road. 
 
(6) No person shall, wilfully or negligently issue, authorise the issue of or 
endorse any Learner’s Permit or Driver’s licence contrary to the provisions of 
these Regulations. 
 
(7) All holders of Commercial, Graduated and Senior drivers’ licences 
shall go through an annual recertification of their licences. 
 
(8) It is mandator y for commercia l drivers to go through the driving 
simulators and medical tests at designated centers as part of the recertification. 
 
47.—(1) Subject to the provisions of these Regulations, a person shall be 
disqualified from obtaining or holding a learner’s permit or driver’s licence— 
(a) if he in the case of any motor vehicle, is under the age of 18 years ; 
(b) where a licence to drive or permit held by him has been suspended by 
a competent court or authority, for such period as he or she may not hold or 
apply for a licence or permit ; 
(c) during any period in respect of which his licence has been revoked by 
a competent court, while an order of revocation remains in force ; 
(d) if he is suffering from any of the following diseases or disabilities— 
(i) uncontrolled epilepsy ; 
(ii) sudden attacks of disabling giddiness or fainting due to hypertension 
or any other cause ; 
(iii) any form of mental illness to such an extent that it is necessary that 
he should be detained, supervised, controlled and treated as a patient ; 
(iv) any condition causing muscular inco-ordination ; 
(v) uncontrolled diabetes mellitus ; 
(vi) defective vision ascertained by a medical test ; or 
(vii) any other disease or physical defect which is likely to render him 
incapable of effectively driving and controlling a vehicle of the class to 
which such licence relates without endangering the safety of other road 
users ; and 
(e) where he is addicted to the use of any drug having a narcotic effect or 
the excessive use of intoxicating liquor. 
 
(2) A person shall not, when applying for a driver’s licence or Learner’s 
Permit, wilfully fail to disclose any disqualification to which he or she is subject 
in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation. 
 
(3) Any person who is the holder of a licence or permit in terms of these 
Regulations, and becomes aware that he has become disqualified from holding 
such licence or permit, shall forthwith cease to drive any vehicle. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disqualifi- 
cation from 
holding 
licence or 
permit.  
B 1550 
 
 
 
Invalid 
permits and 
licences. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Photograph 
of applicant 
for driver’s 
licence. 
 
 
 
 
 
Driving test. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change of 
class or 
category of 
driving 
licence. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certification 
of vision 
acuity and 
general 
medical 
fitness.  
48.—(1) A learner’s permit or driver’s licence issued contrary to the 
provisions of these Regulations shall be invalid and void ; and 
 
(2) Any person or authority who issues a driver’s licence or Learner’s 
Permit without the approval of the appropriate authority commits an offence 
and shall be liable on .conviction to a fine of N10,000:00 or to a term of 1 year 
imprisonment or to both. 
 
49. An applicant for the issue or re-issue of a driver’s licence shall present 
himself physicall y for photographi c capture in addition to recent passport 
photograph (which shall be printed from the same negative) of the head, full 
face, and shoulders of the applicant approximately but not longer than 15 mm by 
30 mm and where a driving test is required in pursuance of regulation 50 (1) of 
these Regulations, the copy shall be certified as a true resemblance of the applicant 
by the appropriate authority. 
 
50.—(1) The Authority shall, before issuing a licence, require the applicant 
to pass a driving test to show that he is capable of fully controlling a motor 
vehicle of the type and group for which he has applied. 
 
(2) The provisions of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall not apply 
to an applicant for renewal except as provided in regulation 46 (4) of these 
Regulations. 
 
51.—(1) Where the holder of a current driver’s licence wishes to change 
to another class or group, he shall be tested on the proposed category or categories 
of vehicles and shall attach the results of such test(s) as well as the previous 
licence to his application to the Authority, the Authority may issue him a new 
licence showing the new class or group on the payment of the prescribed fee. 
 
(2) The new driver’s licence shall be endorsed with the number and date 
of issue of the original licence and with any conviction or order which relates to 
any offence within the immediately preceding two years which was endorsed 
on the original licence. 
 
(3) On the issuance of a new driver’s licence, the old licence shall be 
cancelled by the Authority and forwarded to the Central Data Base with the 
appropriate application form. 
 
(4) Where a driving test is required by the Authority, no licence shall be 
issued unless the application is accompanied by a certificate stating the group or 
groups of licence issued under regulation 60 of these Regulations. 
 
52.—(1) The Authority shall not issue a driver’s licence unless the applicant 
furnishes certificates of vision acuity test and general fitness from any government 
hospital in addition to first aid skill. 
 
(2) The vision acuity and general fitness examination shall be as prescribed 
in Form MVA 13 of Schedule 1 to these Regulations. 
 
(3) A person who is convicted of an offence under this Part of these 
Regulations shall have his licence suspended until the defect is corrected. 
B 1551 
 
 
53.—(1) A driver’s licence shall be as specified in Form MVA 16 of Schedule 
1 to these Regulations and shall be renewable after three years from the date of 
issue or as may be prescribed from time to time by the Commission. 
 
(2) The applicant shall not be entitled to receive a driver’s licence except 
on the payment of the fee prescribed by the Joint Tax Board ; and 
 
(3) The Authority shall affix its official stamp across the passport photograph 
of the applicant on the driver’s licence to the top right hand corner and when 
placing the official stamp, part of the stamp shall be on the photograph and part 
on the licence. 
 
(4) The applicant for a driver’s licence shall append his signature and thumbprint 
in the space provided in the driver’s licence application Form MVA 11 and Form 
MVA 12 specified in Schedule 1 to these Regulations as may be applicable. 
 
54.—(1) The Commission shall be responsible for the production of Driver’s 
Licence for the Federation. 
 
(2) A person shall not, wilfully or fraudulently issue, authorise the issue of, 
or endorse any driver’s licence contrary to the provisions of these Regulations. 
 
(3) A learner’s permit or driver’s licence issued contrary to the provisions 
of these Regulations shall be invalid and void. 
 
(4) A person driving any motor vehicle or trailer who uses a forged driver’s 
licence or a driver’s licence belonging to another person commits an offence 
and shall on conviction be liable to a fine of N20,000:00 or to a term of 1 year 
imprisonment or both. 
 
55.—(1) A person shall not except under and in accordance with a valid 
special permit granted by the appropriate authority, drive or use or cause or 
permit to be driven or used, on a public road in Nigeria, a motor vehicle as 
specified in these Regulations except where: 
 
(a) the gross vehicle weight of the motor vehicle or trailer does not exceed 
the weight specified in relation to a vehicle of the description as specified in 
these Regulations ; and 
(b) the gross vehicle weight is distributed on axles in the manner as specified 
in these Regulations. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph  (b) of sub-regulation (1) 
of this regulation— 
 
(a) no axle singly or at one of the tandem or tridem shall exceed the maximum 
weight limit provided in Form MVA 29 of Schedule 15 to these Regulations. 
(b) the axle load limit shall not exceed the lesser of the limits set in these 
Regulations or the manufacturers’ recommended limits. 
 
(3) A special permit issued by the appropriate authority shall be in the 
prescribed form and shall specify conditions for granting that permit including 
the— 
Form of 
driver’s 
licence. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Production 
of driver’s 
licence. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grant of 
special 
permit.  
B 1552 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conduct of 
driving tests. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certificate of 
competence 
for 
commercial 
drivers. 
(a) presentation of the vehicle and load to be weighed ; 
(b) provision of escorts ; 
(c) use of warning lights and devices ; 
(d) travel time ; or 
(e) any other matter, which in the opinion of the appropriate authority is 
necessary for the carriage of a load and the protection of road infrastructure 
and the environment. 
56.—(1) A driving test shall be conducted by the appropriate authority. 
(2) The driving test shall be held at such a place and time which may be specified 
by the appropriate authority to determine the competence of the applicant to— 
(a) control the motor vehicle in the traffic ; 
(b) bring motor vehicle to a standstill from normal speed ; 
(c) turn corners, cross main roads and turn from side to main roads ; 
(d) pass other vehicles on the roads ; 
(e) drive a motor vehicle except a motorcycle, backwards along a straight 
road and around corners ; 
( f ) turn round in a road ; 
(g) understan d the indicatio n of speed s and figure s show n on the 
speedometer of the motor vehicle ; 
(h) demonstrate his knowledge of the rules of the road, the signals set out 
in Schedules 6 and 7 to these Regulations, signs and traffic light signals 
illustrated in Schedule 9 to these Regulations, first aid skill and the principal 
offences set out under the Act and these Regulations ; 
(i) read at a distance of twenty-three metres in daylight (with the aid of 
glasses, if worn), a motor Vehicle Identification Number Plates ; and 
(j) generally drive competently a motor vehicle or in the case of a person suffering 
from disability, a motor vehicle of the particular class of which the application 
relates, without danger to and with due consideration for other road users. 
 
(3) An applicant who passes a driving test on a vehicle fitted with automatic 
transmission or adapted vehicle shall have his driver’s licence so endorsed and 
shall only be licenced to drive such a vehicle ; 
 
(4) The conditions which apply to the testing of an applicant motor driver 
shall also apply to an applicant motorcycle rider and the result of such a test 
shall be recorded in Form MVA 14 of Schedule 1 to these Regulations. 
 
(5) The driving test as prescribed under this regulation shall be applied by 
all licenced driving schools. 
 
57.—(1) All commercial driver’s licence holders shall undergo a minimum 
of cumulative nine hours of competence training within a period of three years 
and shall be issued a certificate of competence which shall form part of the 
requirements for renewal of the licence. 
B 1553 
 
 
(2) The training and certification shall be as prescribed by the Commission. 
 
(3) An applicant for any class of driver’s licence shall undergo vision 
acuity and general medical fitness examinations including the following— 
 
(a) Blood pressure assessment for hypertension ; 
(b) Blood sugar for diabetes ; 
(c) Visual acuity and colour blindness ; 
(d) Chronic arthritis ; 
(e) E.E.G screening for epilepsy ; and 
( f ) Ear defect. 
 
(4) The vision acuity and general medical fitness examinations shall be 
carried out in any government hospital. 
 
(5) Any person who contravenes the provisions relating to the requirements 
for obtaining commercial driver’s licence commits an offence and shall be liable 
on conviction to a fine of N3,000:00 or to a term of imprisonment for six months 
or to both. 
 
58.—(1) An applicant for a convoy driver’s licence who must have acquired 
a driver’s licence shall undergo the Commission’s organised specialised training 
programme for convoy driving and be issued a certificate of competence to be 
qualified for the class ‘B’ driver’s licence. 
 
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions relating to the requirements for 
obtaining a convoy driver’s licence commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction 
to a fine of N3,000:00 or to a term of imprisonment for six months or to both. 
 
59.—(1) An applicant who passes a driving test on a vehicle fitted with 
automatic transmission or adapted vehicle shall have his driver’s licence so 
endorsed and shall only be licenced to drive such a vehicle. 
 
(2) The conditions which apply to the testing of an applicant motor driver 
shall also apply to an applicant motorcycle rider and the result of such a test 
shall be recorded in Form MVA 14 of Schedule 1 to these Regulations. 
 
(3) The driving test as prescribed under this regulation shall be applied by 
all licenced driving schools. 
 
60. When a person has passed a driving test, he shall be issued with a 
certificate stating the group of licence he is qualified to receive. 
 
 
61.—(1) Whenever an applicant for a driver’s licence is— 
(a) driving a vehicle for the purpose of being tested ; or 
(b) the holder of a learner’s permit ; 
 
there shall be securely affixed at the front and back of the vehicle, plates displaying 
the letter “L” which shall conform with the provisions set out in Schedule 1 of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Convoy 
driver’s 
licence. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Application 
for driving 
licence. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certificate of 
group 
licence. 
 
Learner’s 
sign. 
B 1554 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Replacement 
of defaced or 
illegible 
licence. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loss or 
stolen 
driver’s 
licence. 
 
Replace- 
ment of lost 
or stolen 
licence. 
these Regulations and the plate shall have a white background and the letter “L” 
painted in red colour. 
(2) The learner’s sign shall be as prescribed in Form MVA 17 of Schedule 
1 to these Regulations. 
 
62.—(1) Subject to these Regulations, where the holder of a driver’s licence 
issued under this Part of these Regulations satisfies the Authority that : 
 
(a) the licence is illegible ; or 
(b) the photograph on such licence has become defaced so as to impair the 
identification of the holder thereof, 
 
the Authority shall issue a replacement to the applicant upon the payment of the 
prescribed fee. 
 
(2) The Authority shall endorse on the replaced licence the particulars of 
any conviction or order endorsed on the former licence which relate to any 
offence committed by the owner of the licence within the preceding three years. 
 
(3) The mutilated licence shall be cancelled and shall be forwarded with 
the licence application and photograph to the Central Motor Registry which shall 
cause it to be destroyed. 
 
(4) The procedure for replacing a lost, damaged or defaced licence shall 
be as follows— 
 
(a) the holder shall— 
(i) report to the nearest Police Station and obtain a police extract stating 
particulars of the loss, damage or defacement, 
(ii) swear to an affidavit stating the facts of the loss, damage or defacement ; 
and 
(iii) pay the prescribed fee. 
(b) the Authority shall on the production of the documents specified in 
regulation (4) (a) issue a new licence to the applicant. 
 
63. Where a driver’s licence has been lost or stolen, the holder shall apply 
to the Authority for replacement in the manner specified in regulation 56 of these 
Regulations. 
 
64.—(1) Where the holder of a driver’s licence issued under this Part of 
these Regulations satisfies the Authority in the State in which the original licence 
was issued that the licence has been lost or stolen, he may apply to that Authority 
for a replacement of licence in the same manner as specified in sub-regulation 
(1) of regulation 46 of these Regulations. 
 
(2) The fee payable under this regulation shall be as prescribed and published 
by the Joint Tax Board from time to time. 
 
(3) The provisions of regulation 28 of these Regulations shall apply to any 
such replacement of licence. 
B 1555 
 
 
65. Where a licenced driver is convicted of any offence by a court under the 
Act or these Regulations, the court may, depending on the nature and gravity of the 
offence, suspend or bar the driver from holding a driver’s licence and such conviction 
shall be reported to the Central Motor Registry by the appropriate authority. 
 
66.—(1) Without prejudice to the power of the court to suspend or bar a 
person from holding a driver’s licence, the authority shall have the power to 
suspend a driver’s licence where a person by administrative hearing— 
(a) is convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or any  drug ; 
(b) is convicted of participating in, or organizing an unauthorised speed 
contest on a public highway ; 
(c) receives 3 convictions for failure to maintain insurance ; 
(d) receives 3 convictions for inconsiderate driving within 3 months ; 
(e) receives 3 convictions for failure to properly secure or use child restraint 
system in a vehicle ; 
(f) is convicted of the offence of exceeding the prescribed speed limit 
under these Regulations or any other law ; 
(h) is convicted of driving with defective and uncorrected eyesight ; or 
(i) in other cases— 
 
(i) where a driver has accumulated more than 14 penalty points within 
12 calendar months ; or 
(ii) upon the approval by the Commission of a recommendation made 
by a crash investigation officer recommending suspension. 
(2) The suspension of a driver’s licence by the authority shall be for a 
period not exceeding 6 months and such suspension shall be reported to the 
Central Motor Registry. 
 
(3) A person whose driver’s licence has been suspended under these 
Regulations shall be issued with a notice of suspension as specified in Form 
MVA 28A in Schedule 11 to these Regulations. 
 
(4) Where a driver has accumulated 21 penalty points or 2 consecutive 
suspensions, the authority shall issue to him a notice as specified in Form MVA 
28B of schedule 11 to these Regulations withdrawing his driver’s licence for a 
period of one year and the driver’s licence shall become invalid. 
 
(5) Except in cases of first time offenders, a person who is convicted and 
has his licence suspended shall be required to take driving lessons on the use of 
the road which shall be organized by the authority upon payment of fees to be 
prescribed by the Commission. 
 
(6) The driving lessons shall be for daily periods as shall be determined by 
the authority and shall be for duration of at least 8 weeks, at the completion of 
which a re-issuance of the licence may be made if the offender has successfully 
completed the test at the end of the lessons. 
Report of 
convictions 
to the central 
motor 
registry. 
Suspension 
of drivers 
licence. 
B 1556 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Possession 
of original 
copy of 
licence by 
driver. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Driving 
while licence 
is suspended 
or revoked. 
 
Drivers re- 
testing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change of 
driver’s 
name and 
address. 
(7) In the absence of a reasonable excuse, an absence from any of the 
daily classes prescribed under this regulation shall warrant a restart of the driving 
lessons. 
 
67.—(1) Any person driving a vehicle on any public road shall be in 
possession of an original driver’s licence but where the person is in possession 
of the photocopy of the original driver’s licence he shall within 24 hours produce 
the original driver’s licence to the appropriate authority if demanded. 
 
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of regulation 61 (1) of 
these Regulations commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine 
of N10,000:00 or to a term of 1 year imprisonment or to both. 
 
(3) Any person driving a vehicle must be in possession of at least the 
photocopies of the vehicle particulars, and the originals shall be provided to the 
appropriate authority within 24 hours if so demanded. 
 
(4) Any person who contravenes the provisions of regulation 67 (3) of 
these Regulations commits an offence and is liable upon conviction to a fine of 
N3,000:00 or to a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
68. It shall be an offence for any person to drive a vehicle when his licence 
to do so has been suspended, revoked, expired or cancelled in accordance with 
these Regulations. 
 
69.—(1) The appropriate authority shall re-test a driver upon the payment 
of a precribed driving test fee where— 
 
(a) the driver has been involved in a crash and is adjudged by a Court of 
competent jurisdiction to be at fault ; or 
(b) The driver is convicted of any of the following traffic offences— 
(i) driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs ; or 
(ii) dangerous, careless and reckless driving ; 
 
(c) a Court order that a driver should be re-tested ; 
(d) the appropriate authority considers it necessary to re-test a driver ; and 
(e) the driver is guilty of any other offence or conduct under the Act and 
any other law that may lead to the suspension, revocation or cancellation of 
the driver’s licence. 
 
(2) A Court shall notify the appropriate authority in writing in respect of a 
driver who is to be re-tested upon the order of Court. 
 
(3) Any conviction or order endorsed on the original licence which relates 
to any offence within the immediate two years shall be endorsed on the newly 
issued licence. 
 
70.—(1) A holder of a driver’s licence shall notify the appropriate authority 
in writing within fourteen working days of any change of the holder’s name and 
residential address. 
B 1557 
 
 
(2) Where the change is in respect of a name, the holder shall appear 
personally before the appropriate authority. 
 
(3) The notification to the appropriate authority shall be supported by the 
documents specified in these Regulations. 
 
(4) The appropriate authority shall on being satisfied and on payment of 
the prescribe d fees issue a new licence of the same class to the applicant 
embodying the new particulars. 
 
71.—(1) It shall be an offence for any person to— 
 
(a) lend his driver’s licence to any other person for use or knowingly 
permit the use thereof by another ; or 
(b) display or represent as his own any driver’s licence or identification 
mark belonging to another or which is fictitious or has been fraudulently 
altered in any manner. 
 
72. It shall be an offence for any person to authorise, order, consent or 
knowingly permit the operation of any motor vehicle owned by him or under his 
control by any person, when he has knowledge that such person is disqualified 
or has no legal right to do so. 
 
73.—(1) The Commission shall establish and maintain a Central Data Base 
for vehicles and drivers for the Federation. 
 
(2) Every Motor Licensing Authority in any State of the Federation shall 
provide to the Commission copies of any records, documents or particulars in 
respect of vehicles and licenced drivers. 
 
(3) The Commission shall keep records of all registered vehicles, licenced 
drivers and transport operators in the Central Data Base. 
 
(4) Any record kept in the Central Data Base may on request be made 
available by the Commission to the Police or any other authority. 
 
(5) The Central Data Base shall operate as the National Central Motor 
Registry and the Corps Marshal and Chief Executive of the Federal Road Safety 
Corps shall be the Registrar. 
 
74.—(1) A person shall not drive on a public road a motor vehicle of any 
class or description unless he is the holder of a valid driver’s licence in respect 
of that class of vehicle. 
 
(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of sub-regulation (1) of this 
regulation commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of 
N10,000:00 or term of 1 year imprisonment or to both. 
 
(3) It shall not be a contravention of these Regulations for a member of the 
Commission, Armed Forces, Police or other Para-military agencies in the course 
of his duty to drive a motor vehicle belonging to the Government if that person 
is in possession of a written permit to drive a vehicle of that description issued 
by the Commanding Officer provided that person is a licenced driver, licenced 
to drive that particular class of vehicle. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unlawful use 
of licence. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Permitting an 
unlicenced 
person to 
operate a 
vehicle. 
 
Central data 
base. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use of valid 
licence. 
B 1558 
 
 
 
 
Documents 
for vehicles 
taken for use 
outside 
Nigeria. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Documents 
for drivers 
going outside 
Nigeria. 
PART  VIII—INTERN ATIONAL  CONVENTION   PROVISIONS 
 
75.—(1) Where a person intends to use a vehicle registered under Part II 
of these Regulations outside Nigeria, the appropriate authority shall upon the 
payment of the prescribed fees, issue— 
(a) a registration document certifying the particulars of that vehicle  as 
contained in the register kept by the authority ; 
(b) an International Vehicle Certificate for the vehicle in the form specified 
in the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic 1968 ; 
(c) an International Fiscal Permit for the vehicle in the form set out in the 
Geneva Convention of 1931 ; and 
(d) an ECOWAS Brown Card. 
 
(2) In the case of a trailer, the appropriat e authorit y shall assign an 
identification mark to be inscribed on the trailer while in use outside Nigeria. 
 
(3) The appropriat e authorit y shall not issue an Internationa l Vehicle 
Certificate under the 1968 Vienna Convention on Road Traffic or any other 
documents under this regulation unless the vehicle or trailer has been examined 
as provided under these Regulations. 
 
(4) The appropriate authority shall keep a  register of documents issued 
under this regulation. 
 
76.—(1) The Commission may issue for use outside Nigeria and upon the 
payment of the prescribed fees, an International Driver’s Licence and Driving 
Permit in the form laid down in the 1968 Convention on Road Traffic, to a 
person who has attained the age of 18 years and satisfies the authority that— 
(a) he is competent to drive a motor vehicle of the  class for which the 
permit is to be issued ; and 
(b) he is not disqualified under any of the provisions of the Act or any 
other law from driving any motor vehicle of that description. 
 
(2) The appropriate authority may require an applicant for an International 
Driving Permit to present himself for examination by an officer appointed by the 
appropriate authority to ascertain his competence to drive a motor vehicle of the 
relevant class. 
 
(3) Where a Court makes an Order disqualifying a person from holding a 
driving licence under the provisions of these Regulations or any law, the court 
may also order that the International Driving Permit held by that person, where 
he holds one, be cancelled and surrendered to the appropriate authority. 
 
(4) The appropriate authority shall keep a register of all permits issued 
under this regulation and record all issuance and cancellation of such permits. 
 
(5) An International Driving Permit shall not be transferable and any person 
in contravention of this provision commits an offence and shall be liable on 
conviction to a fine of N10,000:00 or a term of 1 year imprisonment or to both. 
B 1559 
 
 
77.—(1) A person who brings a motor vehicle into Nigeria must apply and 
be granted an International Transit Permit or an International Circulation Permit as 
provided in these Regulations if the person satisfies the appropriate authority — 
(a) that he is resident outside Nigeria and that the motor vehicle will only 
be in Nigeria temporarily ; and 
(b) that the provisions of the Motor Vehicles (Third Party Insurance) Act, 
Cap. M21, LFN 2004, as they apply to the use by that person of the motor 
vehicle will be complied with while the permit is in force, and furnishes the 
following particulars— 
(i) full name, age and residential address of the applicant in the country 
from which he is coming into Nigeria ; 
(ii) date and place of entry of the vehicle into Nigeria ; 
(iii) engine and chassis number of the vehicle and other particulars of 
the vehicle as the appropriate authority may require ; 
(iv) the letters and the number on the registration plates of the vehicle ; 
(v) where the vehicle is drawing a trailer, the chassis number of the 
trailer and its serial or other identification number ; and 
(vi) the address of the applicant in Nigeria. 
 
(2) An International Circulation Permit or an International Transit Permit 
shall not be issued for a period which falls after the ninetieth day from the date 
on which the vehicle was last brought into Nigeria, and the periods for which 
the Permit may be granted to a person in one calendar year shall not exceed 
ninety days. 
 
(3) A person granted an International Circulation Permit or International 
Transit Permit under this regulation shall when the vehicle is being used on any 
public road, display the permit on the front windscreen of the vehicle and shall 
on demand, permit any appropriate authority in uniform to examine the permit. 
 
78. After the expiration of an International Circulation Permit or International 
Transit Permit, or where a vehicle in respect of which the permit is in force— 
(a) is sold or transferred ; 
(b) is finally taken outside Nigeria ; or 
(c) is destroyed ; 
 
the holder of the Permit shall within 7 days inform the appropriate authority and 
surrender the permit. 
International 
transit 
permits for 
visitors 
vehicles. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Surrender of 
international 
circulation 
permit or 
international 
transit 
permit.  
B 1560 
 
 
 
Register of 
permit.  
 
 
 
 
 
Registration 
mark and 
nationality 
sign. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exemption 
for visitors 
with foreign 
driving 
permits.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restriction 
on the use of 
foreign 
driving 
licence. 
79.—(a) The Commission shall keep a register of International Circulation 
Permits and International Transit Permits issued under these Regulations ; and 
(b) any appropriate authority who issues a permit under these Regulations, 
shall forward to the Commission such particulars relating to the issuance of that 
permit as the Commission may require. 
 
80.—(1) A motor vehicle for which an International Circulation Permit is 
in force shall carry— 
 
(a) in the case where a visitor’s document in respect of the vehicle is 
produced to the appropriate authority, the registration mark in respect of the 
vehicle recorded in that document, and a nationality sign indicating the country 
under which that registration mark was issued ; and 
(b) in the case where a visitor’s registration document is not so produced, 
a registration mark assigned to that vehicle by the authority issuing the 
International Circulation Permit. 
 
81.—(1) Subject to the provisions of these Regulations, a person resident 
outside Nigeria who holds a driving permit issued under the Vienna Convention 
in a foreign country which is a party to that Convention, shall, while the permit 
is in force, be exempted from the requirements of these Regulations or any other 
law in respect of vehicles brought into Nigeria. 
 
(2) This regulation shall not apply to a person— 
 
(a) who under the Act or under these Regulations is disqualified from 
holding a driving licence ; and 
(b) who has not attained the age of 18 years. 
 
(3) Where a person holding a driving permit issued under the Vienna 
Convention in a foreign country is convicted of an offence in Nigeria, in connection 
with the driving of a motor vehicle, the Court may— 
 
(a) in addition to any other penalty to which the person may be liable, 
make an Order depriving that person of his right to drive any vehicle in Nigeria 
for a period specified in the Order ; and 
(b) endorse the particulars of the Order on the driving permit. 
 
82. A person shall not use a foreign driving licence to drive any vehicle in 
Nigeria. 
B 1561 
 
 
PART  IX—DRIVERS  AND  CONDUC TORS REGISTR ATION  AND  BADGES 
 
83.—(1) No person shall drive a stage carriage or omnibus without having 
obtained from the appropriate authority a driver’s badge as prescribed in these 
Regulations. 
 
(2) A driver’s badge shall only be issued to a person who holds a valid 
driver’s licence in accordance with the provisions of Part VII of these Regulations 
and it shall not be transferable to any other person. 
 
(3) The appropriate authority shall issue a badge on payment of the fees 
prescribed in these Regulations and on being satisfied that in addition to the 
applicant holding the appropriate driving licence, he is a fit and proper person to 
drive a stage carriage, or an omnibus. 
 
(4) The appropriate authority may require an applicant for a driver’s badge 
to pass a test designed to demonstrate his knowledge of the best routes within 
the areas in which the law allows him to ply for hire and if the appropriate 
authority requires him to pass such a test and he fails to do so, the appropriate 
authority shall not issue the badge. 
 
(5) Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appropriate authority under 
these Regulations may appeal to a Magistrate Court within fourteen days of such 
decision. 
 
84.—(1) The owner of a stage carriage or omnibus shall submit to the 
appropriate authority for registration the names and addresses of all persons 
who he intends to employ as conductors and such persons shall have attained 18 
years of age. 
 
(2) The appropriate authority, on being satisfied that such persons are fit 
and proper persons to be registered shall upon the payments of the prescribed 
fee for each registration, issue to the owner a conductor’s badge as prescribed 
under these Regulations for each person so registered. 
 
(3) Upon any person ceasing to act as a conductor in the employment of 
the owner, the owner shall so notify the appropriate authority and cause the 
badge issued in respect of that person to be returned whereupon the appropriate 
authority shall cancel the registration. 
 
(4) A conductor’s badge issued in accordance with these Regulations shall 
not be transferable to any other person. 
 
85. The Corps Marshal may, by notification in writing to the appropriate 
authority, exempt certain classes of omnibuses from the provisions of sub- 
regulation (1) of regulation 83 of these Regulations. 
 
86. A driver or conductor badge issued in accordance with these Regulations 
shall be worn in a conspicuous manner by the driver or conductor to whom it is 
issued and when, in the case of— 
 
 
 
Issuance of 
badges for 
drivers and 
conductors 
of stage 
carriage and 
omnibus. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registration 
of 
conductors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exemption 
from the use 
of badges. 
 
Use of 
badges. 
B 1562 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Surrender of 
badges. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions 
for licensing. 
 
 
 
 
Use and 
construction 
of taxis. 
(a) the driver, he is driving or in charge of a stage carriage or omnibus on 
a public road ; and 
(b) the conductor, when he is acting as conductor of a stage carriage or an 
omnibus. 
 
87.—(1) If the driver or conductor of a stage carriage or omnibus in 
respect of whom a badge has been issued is convicted of an offence under any 
of these Regulations or is disqualified from driving or conducting under these 
Regulations, the appropriate authority may— 
(a) by notice in writing, demand the surrender of such badge, even if, in 
the case of a driver, the licence to drive a motor vehicle has not been suspended 
or revoked in accordance with the provisions of these Regulations ; and 
(b) in the case of the conductor, demand a surrender of the conductor’s 
badge to the appropriate authority. 
 
(2) Any drive r or conducto r who contravene s the provisio n of sub- 
regulation (1) of this regulation commits an offence and shall be liable on 
conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or a term of 4 months imprisonment or to 
both. 
 
PART  X—TAXIS, STAGE  CARRIAGES,  OMNIBUSES   AND  MOTORCYCLES  FOR  HIRE 
 
88. The Authority may licence a motor vehicle as a taxi, stage carriage, 
omnibus or motorcycle on the payment of prescribed fees and published by the 
Joint Tax Board provided that the vehicle conforms with the conditions specified 
in these Regulations or in any other law. 
 
89. No person shall cause, permit or drive a taxi on any public road unless 
the following conditions are satisfied— 
 
(a) the maximum number of persons approved to be carried by the taxi is 
inscribed on the two front doors of the taxi ; 
(b) the taxi colour must conform with the colour specified in that particular 
State or the Federal Capital Territory ; 
(c) the word “Taxi” shall be inscribed in white letters 64 millimetres in 
height on the top right corner of the windscreen in the front and the rear ; 
(d) the taxi shall bear an identification number allocated by the Authority 
on payment of the prescribed fee ; 
(e) each passenger shall be provided with seating accommodation of a 
width of at least 0.406 metres ; 
( f ) the taxi shall have two or more entrances on each side ; 
(g) the taxi shall not be used for the conveyance of any livestock as to 
inconvenience other people in the taxi ; 
(h) the number of persons carried in the taxi shall at no time exceed the 
number authorised by the competent Authority and as inscribed on the sides 
of the taxi ; 
B 1563 
 
 
(i)  the taxi shall at all-time be kept clean ; and 
(j) the taxi shall not stand or ply for hire if it is in such a condition as to be 
unsafe or unsuitable for the conveyance of passengers or does not conform 
with the provisions of these Regulations ; 
 
90.—(1) The taxi shall be fitted with amber or yellow light at the top most 
centre of the roof above the front windscreen with the word “TAXI” inscribed 
in black lettering on both sides to indicate a taxi at night. 
(2)  It shall be so fitted as to be controlled by the parking light switch of 
the vehicle. 
 
91.—(1) A person shall not cause or permit a stage carriage to be used on 
any public road, or shall drive or have charge of a stage carriage, unless the 
following conditions are satisfied, that is— 
 
(a) each passenger is provided with seating accommodation, the supports 
of which are firmly fixed in position of a width of 0.356 metres a depth of at 
least 0.356 metres and a maximum height of 0.457 metres from the floor of 
the stage carriage shall be allowed for the seating accommodation of each 
passenger. 
(b) in the case of seats facing the direction, a clear space of at least 0.254 
metres is allowed between the foremost part of one seat and the rear part of 
the seat in front and in the case of seats arranged facing each other a clear 
space of at least 0.4482 metres is allowed between the front edge of one seat 
and the front edge of the seat facing it ; 
(c) the driver’s seat in stage carriage carrying passengers or in a motor 
vehicle carrying goods and passengers is not less than 0.610 metres wide and 
is so constructed as to be centred on steering column and the seat is completely 
divided off from any seating accommodation provided for any person sitting 
in the driver’s compartment by a fixed partition approved by the appropriate 
authority and no person except the driver shall occupy the driver’s seat ; 
(d) in any case where the driver’s seat is so partitioned off, one person 
only shall sit in the remaining portion of the driving compartment if the seat 
provided exceeds 0.356 metres but less than 0.711 metres in width and if the 
seat exceed 0.711 metres in width then not more than two persons may sit 
thereon ; 
(e) the motor vehicles shall carry a conductor registered in accordance 
with these Regulations ; 
( f ) the driver of the stage carriage shall abide by any specified routes or 
other conditions imposed by the authority ; 
(g) the number of persons carried in the stage carriage shall at no time 
exceed the number authorised by the appropriate authority as recorded in the 
registration book of the vehicle and inscribed on the two front doors; and 
(h) the stage carriage shall at all times be kept in clean condition. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Taxi roof 
light. 
 
 
 
 
 
Use and 
construction 
of stage 
carriages. 
B 1564 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use and 
construction 
of omnibus. 
(2) For the purpose of sub-regulation (1) (g) of this regulation, the number 
of persons shall be calculated as follows, that is— 
(a) each person shall be taken as weighing 76.204 kilograms with an 
allowance of 12.700 kilograms, hand luggage ; and 
(b) two children under the age of twelve years shall be taken as one person 
and at no time shall the number of persons to be carried at any one time 
exceed the half of the freight or load which the vehicle is authorised to carry. 
 
92. A person shall not cause or permit an omnibus to be used on any public 
road, or take charge of an omnibus, unless the following conditions are satisfied, 
that is— 
 
(a) the maximum number of persons approved to be carried at a time is 
inscribed in letters and figures on the two sides of the omnibus ; 
(b) the overall length shall not exceed 12 metres ; 
(c) the overhang shall not exceed one-third of the overall length but in the 
case of an omnibus body constructed in Nigeria, the overhang shall not exceed 
seven twenty-fourth of the overall length ; 
(d) the body shall be constructed and designed for the sole purpose of 
carrying passengers and hand luggage ; 
(e) all seating accommodation shall allow a space of at least 0.356 metres 
in length for every passenger ; 
( f ) the width of the seats from front to back shall be at least 0.356 metres ; 
(g) in the case of seats facing the same direction there shall be provided 
space of at least 0.660 metres between the front of the back of one seat and 
the back of the seat immediately in front of which space shall not be less than 
0.25 metres and at least, shall be clear of obstruction to the floor ; 
(h) in the case of seats arranged facing each other there shall be a space of 
at least 0.457 metres clear of obstruction between the front edge of one seat 
and the front edge of the seat facing it ; 
(i) the gang way shall be at least 40 cm wide ; 
(j) at least two entrances or exits shall be provided for passengers (one of 
which may be an emergenc y exit) and all entrance s or exits not being 
emergency exits shall not be less than 0.609 metres wide and shall not be less 
than 1.676 metres in height ; 
(k) every entrance or exit (other than an emergency exit) shall be on the 
rear side of the omnibus ; 
(l) every emergency exit shall be fitted with a door which shall be kept 
closed except in an emergency and every entrance or exit door shall be capable 
of being opened by one operation of the locking mechanism and shall be so 
designed as to be readily opened in case of need from both the inside and the 
outside of the omnibus ; 
B 1565 
 
 
(m) the steps to the entrance and exits shall be closed and the maximum 
height from the ground of the lowest step shall be 0.457 metres ; 
(n) the driver’s seat shall be separated from the passengers compartment 
by a partition approved by the Vehicle Inspection Officer ; 
(o) the minimum internal height of the vehicle from the floor to the roof 
shall not be less than 1.7 metres. 
(p) there shall be provided a bell or other device electrically or manually 
operated which allows the conductor to transmit signals to the driver from 
any part of the omnibus ; 
(q) the number of persons carried in an omnibus shall at no time exceed 
the number authorise d by the appropriat e authorit y and recorded in the 
registration book of the vehicle ; 
(r) the omnibus shall at all-time be kept in a clean condition ; and 
(s) the omnibus shall not carry any load or luggage on its canopy. 
 
93.—(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of regulations 89, 91 and 92 of 
these Regulations, the following categories of vehicles shall carry the number of 
passengers including the driver specified under this regulation— 
(a) Saloon car – 5 persons 
(b) Station wagon – 7 persons 
(c) 10 seater bus – 10 persons 
(d) 14 seater bus –  14 persons 
(e) 16 seater bus – 16 persons 
( f ) 18 seater bus – 18 persons 
(g) Coaster bus  – 21 persons 
(h) Luxury bus  – 35-55 persons 
 
(2) In the case of other passenger carrying commercial vehicles, to carry 
not more than four passengers in each row provided that each passenger shall 
be provided with seating accommodation of a width of at least 0.406 metres. 
 
(3) A passenger vehicle carrying only goods shall be permitted to carry a 
weight equal to its registered freight or load. 
 
(4) Where a passenger carrying vehicle carries persons as well as goods, 
the total combined weight of the persons calculated with hand luggage and 
goods shall not exceed the registered freight or load of such vehicle. 
 
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulation (4) of this regulation, 
the number of persons carried on a vehicle shall not exceed the maximum number 
allowed by the appropriate authority and proper seating accommodation shall be 
made available for each passenger. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of 
passengers 
to be carried. 
B 1566 
 
 
 
Use and 
construction 
of multi- 
purpose 
vehicles. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carriage of 
persons on 
goods 
carrying 
vehicle. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Private use 
of stage 
carriage or 
omnibus. 
 
Route 
restriction.  
 
 
Use and 
construction 
of 
motorcycles. 
94.—(1) A person shall not cause or permit to be driven any multi-purpose 
vehicle on any public road unless— 
(a) the maximum gross weight of the vehicle shall not exceed thirty-two 
tonnes ; 
(b) the maximum load allowed by the appropriate authority to be carried at 
any time shall be inscribed in figures in the two front doors of the vehicle ; 
(c) be of such shape and colour and shall be clearly distinguishable from 
the colour of the background where on the letters and figures are painted ; 
(d) the body shall be constructed with a minimum of twenty gauge sheet 
metal and fitted with a permanent rigid roof, with or without, a sliding panel ; 
and 
(e) any freight or load carried on the vehicle shall be secured in such a 
manner as to render it impossible for such freight, load or any person thereof 
to fall-off. 
 
(2) The number of passengers carried shall not exceed the number approved 
by the Vehicle Inspection Officer. 
 
95.—(1) No person other than the driver and two other persons, who shall 
be seated in the driver’s cabin may be carried on any goods carrying vehicle. 
 
(2) No other person shall be carried on the goods compartment on any 
goods carrying vehicle or trailer. 
 
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation, 
the appropriate authority may authorise by written permit the carrying of persons 
in excess of two excluding the driver of the vehicle, subject to such conditions 
as the appropriate authority may endorse on the permit. 
 
96. Where any stage carriage or omnibus licenced to ply for hire is hired 
by any person for use exclusively for any particular purpose such stage carriage 
or omnibus shall carry in a conspicuous place on the front and rear thereof a 
sign marked “PRIVATE.” 
 
97. A stage carriage or omnibus licenced to operate between specified 
points shall not stand or ply for hire on any route other than that approved by the 
appropriate authority. 
 
98.—(1) A person shall not cause or permit another person to ride a 
motorcycle for the purpose of hire or reward on any public road unless the 
following conditions are satisfied - 
 
(a) the cubic capacity of the motorcycle is 100cc and above but not more 
than 200cc ; 
(b) the motorcycle shall bear an identification mark and number allocated 
by the Authority to distinguish it from other non-commercial motorcycles on 
the payment of the prescribed fee ; 
B 1567 
 
 
(c) the motorcycle shall  carry only the rider and one passenger at a time ; 
(d) the motorcycle shall not carry any other load on the tank, in front of 
the rider, in between the rider and passenger or on the head of the rider or 
passenger ; 
(e) both the rider and the passenger shall wear approved safety crash 
helmets while on motion and which shall be fastened or securely fitted under 
the chin ; 
( f ) the motorcycle shall be kept clean at all times ; 
(g) the rider of a motorcycle shall wear a coded reflective jacket at night as 
approved and provided by the appropriate authority on the payment of a 
prescribed fee ; 
(h) unless while overtaking, no two motorcycles shall be ridden parallel to 
each other ; 
(i) no motorcycle shall be used to tow another ; 
(j) a motorcycle shall be fitted with two pneumatic tyres on its wheels and 
at no point of its circumference shall the depth of the tread be less than 1 
millimetre ; 
(k) the motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one braking system 
which will have sufficient effect on both wheels to bring the motorcycle to a 
stop while on reasonable speed ; 
(l) the motorcycle shall while the engine is on, be sufficiently silent as to 
prevent unnecessary noise ; 
(m) the exhaust pipe of any motorcycle shall not emit excessive gas ; 
(n) all motorcycle shall have one headlight, two trafficators at the front 
and the rear, one parking light at the rear, one brake light and white light to 
shine on the number plate ; 
(o) all motorcycles shall be equipped with factory fitted horn sounding not 
more than single note ; 
(p) all motorcycles shall be equipped with two rear view mirrors, one on 
each side near the handle bar ; and 
(q) all motorcycles shall be fitted with two sets of foot rests for both 
passenger and the rider ; 
 
(2) A person shall not sell or authorise for sale any motorcycle without 
approved safety helmets accompanying each and the helmets shall comply with 
standards approved by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria or any appropriate 
authority. 
 
(3) The rider of a motorcycle shall not carry any person in front of him 
while on motion. 
 
(4) The motorcycle shall not carry any other load on the tank, in front of 
the rider, in between the rider and passenger or on the head of the rider or 
passenger. 
B 1568 
 
 
 
Use and 
construction 
of 
motorcycle 
with three 
wheels. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Power to fix 
fares. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of 
fares and 
timetable to 
be carried 
and 
exhibited. 
 
 
 
 
 
Prohibition 
of noise. 
99. A person shall not ride, cause or permit another person to ride a 
motorcycle with three wheels on any road or public road unless it shall— 
 
(a) not carry more than four persons including the rider ; 
(b) be kept clean at all times ; 
(c) conform with the colour specified in that particular State or the Federal 
Capital Territory ; 
(d) be fitted with three pneumatic tyres on its wheels each of which at no point 
of its circumference shall the depth of the tread be not less than 1 millimetre ; 
(e) have at least one or a maximum of two head lights, two parking lights 
at the front and the rear, two trafficators at the front and the rear, brake light 
and a single white light to shine on the number plate ; and 
( f ) on no account be used for inner-city commuter service. 
 
100.—(1)  The appropriate Authority may— 
 
(a) fix maximum and where necessary, minimum fares for taxis, stage 
carriages and omnibuses ; 
(b) require taxis plying for hire to be fitted with a metre or other device 
approved by the appropriat e authorit y for the purpose of indicatin g the 
authorised fare for any journey ; 
(c) fix time tables for and determine stopping places in relation to stage 
carriages and omnibuses plying for hire on any specified routes ; and 
(d) determine the days and hours of operation during which stage carriages 
and omnibuses may ply for hire. 
 
(2) The metres specified in sub-regulation (1) (b) of this regulation, shall 
be regulated and published by the appropriate authority and any persons aggrieved 
may appeal to any Magistrate Court. 
 
101.—(1) Every taxi, stage carriage or omnibus shall be required to carry 
and exhibit a copy of the table of fares and the time-table (if any) applicable to it, 
printed in bold letters and placed in such a position on the vehicle as the appropriate 
authority may direct and every metre or other device for indicating authorised 
fares shall be kept in good working condition. 
 
(2) Any person who demands or receives more than the approved fares 
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to 
a term of 3 months imprisonment or both. 
. 
102. The owner, driver or conductor or any person acting on behalf of the 
owner, driver or conductor of a taxi, stage carriage or omnibus standing or 
plying for hire shall not— 
 
(a) speak, make any noise or sound any instrument in order to attract the 
attention of the public or of a possible passenger ; or 
B 1569 
 
 
(b) act in any way as to make himself objectionable or a nuisance to any 
person, cause any annoyance or inconvenience to any person. 
 
103. The driver of a taxi, stage carriage omnibus or any other vehicle shall 
not smoke, eat or drink while driving. 
 
 
 
 
104. Where any person wishes to engage a taxi of a particular seating 
capacity or type and if such a taxi is not the first one on the stand, the driver of 
the first taxi of the required seating capacity or type on the stand shall accept the 
hire. 
 
 
 
Smoking, 
eating or 
drinking 
while 
driving. 
 
Taxis for hire. 
 
105.—(1) All taxis on the stand shall move up as vacancies occur and the 
driver of a taxi shall not without reasonable cause refuse to— 
 
(a) be hired when the vehicle is on the stand at the taxi park ; or 
(b) drive the vehicle to the final destination as agreed with hirer at the time 
of hire ; or 
(c) carry such number of passengers, not exceeding the number specified 
in the registration book for the vehicle. 
 
(2) The driver of a taxi shall not, unless requested to do so by the hirer, 
stop his vehicle for a longer period than is reasonably necessary and if not hired, 
he shall not stop his vehicle for a possible hirer while driving on any public road 
except at a designated parking point or taxi stand. 
 
106. Where the driver of a taxi or the conductor or driver of a stage 
carriage or omnibus finds any property forgotten in the vehicle he shall without 
any delay take it to the nearest Corps office, Police Station, or to the driver’s 
union office in the motor park. 
 
107. No person shall, while travellin g in or upon a stage carriage or 
omnibus— 
 
(a) use any obscene, indecent, offensive or quarrelsome language or gesture, 
or behave in any manner likely to annoy or insult any other person ; 
(b) wilfully interfere with the comfort of any other passenger ; 
(c) spit on or out of, or wilfully soil any other part of the vehicle ; 
(d) wilfully damage, deface the vehicle or any part thereof or any part of 
its equipment ; 
(e) wilfully do or cause to be done with respect to any part of the vehicle 
or its equipment anything which is calculated to interfere with the working of 
the stage carriage or omnibus or so as to cause injury or discomfort to any 
other passenger ; 
( f ) wilfully obstruct or impede the driver or conductor in the exercise of 
their duty ; 
 
Taxis driver 
not to refuse 
to be hired 
without 
reasonable 
excuse. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Procedure 
regarding 
propert y left 
in vehicle. 
 
Person 
travelling in 
stage carriage 
or omnibus. 
B 1570 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Passenger 
manifest. 
(g) enter into conversation with the driver of the vehicle while the vehicle 
is in motion ; 
(h) smoke or carry a lighted pipe, cigar or cigarette in any part of the 
vehicle whether or not a notice prohibiting smoking is exhibited in the vehicle ; 
(i) sell or offer for sale or distribute any goods or printed material of any 
description ; 
(j) throw away article from any part of the vehicle ; 
(k) refuse to pay his fare when demanded ; or 
(l) cause an obstruction on the entrances or exits or to the passenger way 
used to obtain access to the seats in the vehicle. 
 
108. —(1) All passenge r-carryin g commercia l vehicle s shall , before 
commencing any intercity journey, keep and maintain a passenger manifest 
indicating the names of its passengers, their addresses, their point of departure 
and destination, their telephone numbers, name and telephone number of the 
next of kin. 
 
(2) Where the journey is broken by reason of some passenger alighting 
before the final destination, another passenger may be admitted on board and the 
terminal point of the former shall be recorded and the particulars of the latter 
entered in the manner prescribed in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation. 
 
(3) A person taking charge of a motor vehicle shall not admit or cause to be 
admitted on board the vehicle, any passenger who fails or refuses to furnish his 
particulars in accordance with the provisions of this regulation. 
 
(4) The driver or person taking charge of a passenger-carrying commercial 
vehicle shall, when requested by the appropriate authority, present the manifest 
for examination. 
 
(5) The passenger manifest shall be bound in the form of a booklet and 
kept in triplicate such that one copy shall be deposited with the office at the 
point of departure, another kept at the office of the final destination and a copy 
kept as a permanent record for future reference in the vehicle and shall be in the 
form prescribed in Form MVA 18 of Schedule 2 to these Regulations. 
 
(6) A driver or a person taking charge of a passenger carrying commercial 
vehicle who fails to comply with the provision of this regulation commits an 
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N10,000:00 or to a term of 
6 months imprisonment or both. 
(7) A person shall not— 
(a) cause or permit any vehicle to park or ply for hire unless the vehicle is 
licenced under these Regulations ; 
(b) cause or permit any vehicle to park or ply for hire unless the vehicle 
has an identification number plate as required by these Regulations ; 
B 1571 
 
 
(c) cause or permit any vehicle to ply for hire unless the table of fares, 
timetable (if any) and the number of passengers the vehicle is licenced to 
carry is exhibited ; or 
(d) cause or permit any taxi which is required to be fitted with a meter or 
other device for indicating authorised fares to park or ply for hire unless the 
meter or device is in good working condition or, while hired, fails to put such 
metre or device into operation, or alters, damages or interferes in any way 
with the proper operation of such metre or device ; 
(e) cause or permi t any taxi, stage carriag e or omnibu s to stop for 
passengers at any place other than an approved place ; or 
( f ) while in charge of a stage carriage or omnibus pick up or discharge 
passengers except at an approved place. 
 
(8) Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this regulation 
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to 
a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
PART  XI—USE  OF  SCHOOL  BUSES 
 
109.—(1) All school buses shall be registered as commercial vehicles. 
 
(2) Any vehicle used as school bus shall be uniformly coloured and the 
exterior shall have a yellow (hexa decimal colour code FFFFOO) background 
with two stripes (3cm) spaced  by 2cm running from the bonnet upward across 
the roof down the backend. 
 
(3) A school bus shall be conspicuously marked “School Bus” above the 
wind screen, close to the bus roof. 
 
(4) A school bus exterior shall have the inscription of the name of school, 
the logo, serialised code on both sides and at the front view. 
 
(5) A school bus shall be equipped with well-displayed reflective colour 
materials or stripes and markings to enhance safety. 
 
110. An applicant for a school bus driver’s or assistant school bus driver’s 
permit shall— 
 
(a) possess a valid class ‘E’ driver licence with minimum of five years 
driving experience ; 
(b) undergo annual general medical fitness test, alcohol and drug test at 
any National Health Insurance Scheme approved hospital ; 
(c) be persons with no criminal record of indictment or jail term ; 
(d) undergo a minimum of nine hours training within three years as a pre- 
condition for the renewal of his driver’s licence ; and 
(e) undergo in-service training programme, which shall include seminars, 
workshops, conferences on the use of the road and Child psychology. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Identification 
of school 
buses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qualification 
for School 
bus driver 
and assistant 
school bus 
driver. 
B 1572 
 
 
 
Procedure 
for selecting 
a driver and 
an assistant 
driver of a 
school bus. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
School bus 
Operator’s 
Permit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance 
cover for 
school bus 
and 
occupants.  
 
Safety unit. 
 
 
Penalty for 
contravention. 
111.—(1) The procedure for selecting a driver and assistant driver of a 
school bus shall be as prescribed by the Federal Road Safety Commission. 
 
(2) In addition to any procedure that may be prescribed by the Commission 
under sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, before a person is selected as a 
driver or assistant driver of a school bus, he shall undergo vision acuity and 
general medical fitness examinations including— 
 
(a) blood pressure assessment for hypertension ; 
(b) blood sugar for diabetes ; 
(c) visual acuity and colour blindness ; 
(e) chronic arthritis ; 
(f) E.E.G screening for epilepsy ; and 
(g) ear defect. 
 
(3) The vision acuity and general medical fitness examinations under sub- 
regulation (2) of this regulation shall be carried out in any government hospital. 
 
(4) Any person who contravenes the provisions relating to a driver or 
assistant driver of a school bus commits an offence and shall be liable on 
conviction to a fine of N3,000:00 or to a term of six months imprisonment or to 
both. 
 
112.—(1)   All operator s of schoo l bus shall be registere d with the 
Commission. 
 
(2) A person applying to be registered as operator of a school bus shall 
obtain a Permit after fulfilling the necessary requirements as prescribed by the 
Commission. 
 
(3) The operators permit shall be valid for three years and shall not be 
transferable. 
 
(4) An applicant for a permit as operator of school bus shall possess a valid 
National Driver Licence. 
 
113. A school bus operator shall acquire a comprehensive insurance cover 
for the school bus and its occupants from an insurance company registered by 
National Insurance Commission. 
 
 
114. A school bus operator with up to five vehicles in his fleet shall establish 
a safety unit and appoint a qualified Safety Manager to head the unit. 
 
115. Any person who contravenes any regulation under this part commits 
an offence and shall where no special provision is provided in this part, be liable 
on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 6 months imprisonment or 
both. 
B 1573 
 
 
PART  XII—USE    AND  CONSTRUCTION 
 
116.—(1)  A person shall not drive, cause, or permit to be driven, a motor 
vehicle or trailer on any public road unless - 
 
(a) the vehicle with its net weight exceeding 254 kilograms shall be capable 
of moving either forward or backwards ; 
(b) the overhang of the motor vehicle or trailer shall not exceed 0.291 
metres including the measurement of the overall length of the chassis ; provided 
that the provisions of this regulation shall not apply to an omnibus ; 
(c) the height from the ground level of the vehicle or trailer with any 
freight or load placed thereon shall not at any point exceed 3.353 metres; 
provided that where the freight or load is entirely composed of seed and 
cotton, or cotton lint, foams and plastic the height of such freight or load 
from the ground level may be increased to 3.810 metres ; or 
(d) the freight or load on any motor vehicle shall be carried in such a 
manner as not to render the freight or load or any part thereof insecure when 
the motor vehicle or trailer is in motion ; 
 
(2) No freight or load whatsoever shall be carried on the top or outside the 
hood, canopy or roof of any motor vehicle other than the spare tyres for such 
vehicle unless the vehicle is in possession of a certificate issued to that effect by 
the appropriate authority ; 
 
(3)   The freight or load whose weight is more than that for which the 
vehicle is constructed to carry shall not be carried by any commercial vehicle or 
trailer and the owner of any vehicle or trailer shall inscribe the net weight of the 
vehicle, the weight of freight or load where required by the appropriate authority 
the axle weights on some conspicuous part of the vehicle ; 
 
(4)  No passenger other than an escort or conductor shall be carried on a 
trailer ; 
 
(5) No passenger shall be carried on a commercial vehicle not being a 
stage carriage or taxi or hearse other than the owner or hirer of the vehicle or the 
owner of the goods carried on the vehicle or the servants or agents of the hirer ; and 
 
(6) No person shall stand in or on a motor vehicle or trailer which is not 
covered while in motion. 
 
(7) A motor vehicle or trailer and all parts and accessories of such vehicle 
or trailer shall be in such condition as not to cause or likely to cause danger to 
any person therein or other road users or any property lying on or adjoining the 
road. 
 
117.—(1) A vehicle or trailer shall not exceed 2.8 metres in width and 12 
metres overall length inclusive of any load thereon. 
 
 
 
General 
conditions 
for use of 
motor 
vehicles. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overloading. 
B 1574 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Permit for 
abnormal or 
Super- 
dimensional 
loads. 
(2) No load may protrude more than 0.914 metres beyond the front elevation 
of a motor vehicle or trailer or more than 1.829 metres beyond the rear elevation 
of the vehicle or more than 0.76 metres beyond either side of the vehicle, and 
where the load projects more than 1.219 metres behind the rear elevation of 
such vehicle, a red flag shall be fixed by day to the extreme end of the load and 
a red lamp by night in a similar position and the flag or lamp shall be clearly 
visible from the rear. 
 
118.—(1)  A motor vehicle or trailer which carries a load which by its 
nature is indivisible and unavoidably exceeds the prescribed dimensions but not 
an axle load limit shall not be driven on any public road except a special permit as 
provided in regulation 55 of these Regulations is issued by the appropriate authority 
and upon the payment of the prescribed fee. 
 
(2) The cost for safe movement of the cargo shall be borne by the registered 
owner of the vehicle. 
 
(3) Where there is an abnormal load the width of which exceeds 2.8m, the 
registered owner shall provide an escort vehicle at the owner’s expense. 
 
(4) Where a vehicle carries a super load that can cause damage to the road, 
road furniture or road structure, the registered owner must comply with the 
conditions laid down in the permit issued by the appropriate authority to avoid 
damage to any part of the road. 
 
(5) Where visible damage is done to a road, road structure or road furniture, 
the registered owner shall be required to compensate the appropriate authority 
for the damage and shall be liable for any cost, charges or expenses as regards 
an axle or gross vehicle weight overload fee payable in accordance with these 
Regulations. 
 
(6) Where a vehicle is overloaded and the load is considered to be loaded 
abnormally, it shall not be off-loaded at the weigh bridge station unless special 
and safety precautions are taken and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be 
required to pay a prescribed fee for each overloaded axle or for the excess gross 
weight. 
 
(7) Where the destination is further away from the starting point, the driver 
shall take the vehicle to the starting point for off-loading to legal limits after 
having paid the overload fee and if the destination is near the vehicle may proceed 
after having paid the regular overload fee and the surcharge shall be paid in 
accordance with these Regulations. 
 
(8) A person is disqualified from being issued a permit if that person has an 
outstanding debt as regards monies payable under these Regulations. 
 
(9) Subject to the provisions on liability for an overloaded vehicle under 
this regulation, fees and costs payable shall not exclude penalties for other traffic 
offences associated with it. 
B 1575 
 
 
119.—(1) A motor vehicle and trailer shall be fitted with pneumatic tyres 
on all its wheels and at no point of circumference of such tyres shall the depth 
of the tread be less than one millimetre. 
 
(2) No person shall use or cause to be used on a road any motor vehicle or 
trailer any wheel of which is fitted with a re-cut pneumatic tyre, the fabric of 
which has been exposed by the re-cutting process. 
 
(3) Tyres of vehicles shall carry on the side walls full specifications on 
safety regarding load capacity, maximum speed permitted, pressure and codes 
for date of production. 
 
(4) All commercial motor vehicles carrying ten or more passengers shall 
have emergency exits. 
 
(5) The front and rear bumpers shall be made of collapsible materials, 50 
cm by 12cm above the surface of the road and be spaced at least 12cm from the 
main frame of the vehicle. 
 
(6) All motor vehicles plying any public road shall be in possession of good 
electric or air horn, jack, wheel spanner, tools, fire extinguisher, inflated spare 
tyre, first aid box, emergency warning triangles or cones, laminated windscreen 
and mirrors, speed governor, wipers, insurance certificate and road worthiness 
certificate. 
 
(7) The fire extinguisher for different categories of vehicles are as follows— 
(a) Articulated Vehicles/Trailers          . .            ..           ..         2 Nos. 9 Kg ; 
(b) Lorries              . .          . .            . .           . .           ..         2 Nos. 6 Kg ; 
(c) Luxury Buses   . .          . .            . .           . .          . .         2 Nos. 6 Kg ; 
(d) Buses                 ..          . .            . .           . .            ..         1 No. 2 Kg ; 
(e)  Pick-up Vans    ..          . .            . .           . .            ..         1 No. 2 Kg ; 
(f)  Taxi Cab/Private Cars   . .            . .      ..        ..     . .          1 No. 2 Kg ; 
(8) The fire extinguisher shall not be an expired one and shall conform to 
the specifications set out in Schedule 13 to these Regulations. 
 
(9) The driver of a motor vehicle, other than a two-wheeled motorcycle, 
whose vehicle is stationary on a road shall give adequate advance warning to 
approaching drivers of the obstacle which that vehicle constitutes by placing an 
advance warning triangle or a red or amber blinker traffic lantern or reflective 
cones at suitable points both at the rear and front of the vehicle and at a distance 
from the vehicle sufficient to give the said warning but which shall not be less 
than 45m. 
 
(10) (i) An advance warning triangle shall consist of an equilateral triangle 
with sides not less than 40cm long and red border not less than 5cm wide and 
with its interior part either yellow or of a light colour. 
 
(ii) The red border shall be illuminated or fitted with a reflectorized stripe 
or a reflectorized blinker where applicable. 
Tyres, First 
Aid Boxes, 
Fire 
extinguishers, 
etc. 
B 1576 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Braking 
system.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Silencers and 
exhaust 
pipes.  
(iii) An advance warning triangle shall be in a form that it can stand firmly 
on its own in a vertical position. 
 
(11) A person shall not remove an advance warning device so displayed 
until the obstructing vehicle is removed and any person who contravenes the 
provisions of this regulation commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction 
to a fine of N3,000:00 or a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
120.—(1) A motor vehicle shall be equipped with two entirely independent 
and efficient braking systems, or with one efficient braking system having two 
independent means of operation, in either case designed, constructed or maintained 
that the failure of any single portion of the braking system shall not, even under 
the most adverse conditions, prevent the brakes on two wheels or in the case of 
a vehicle having less than four wheels, on one wheel, from operating effectively 
so as either to hold such wheels from revolving or to have the same effect in 
stopping the motor vehicle as if such wheels were so held. 
 
(2) In the case of a single braking system, the two means of operation 
shall not be deemed not to be independent solely by reason of the fact that they 
are connected either directly or indirectly with the same cross shaft. 
 
(3) In the case of a motor vehicle having more than three wheels and 
equippe d with two independen t braking systems, each system shall be so 
constructed, designed and maintained that if it acts (either directly or indirectly) 
on two wheels, it shall act on two wheels on the same axle. 
 
(4) Where in the case of a single braking system, the means of operation 
are connected either directly or indirectly with the same cross shaft, the brakes 
applied by one of such means shall act on all the wheels of the motor vehicle 
directly and not through the transmission gear. 
 
(5) In all cases, the brakes operated by one of the means of operation shall 
be supplied by direct mechanical action without the intervention of any hydraulic, 
electric or pneumatic device. 
 
(6) In all cases, the brakes operated by one of the means of operation shall 
act directly upon the wheels and not through the transmission gear. 
 
(7) Except in the case of motorcycle, with or without a side-car, the braking 
systems shall be so designed, constructed and maintained that it may be set so 
effectually to prevent two at least, or in the case of a motor vehicle having only 
three wheels , one of the wheels , from revolvin g when the vehicl e is left 
unattended. 
 
(8) A motor vehicle must be capable of being so operated that it may move 
either forward or backward. 
 
121.—(1) The engine of any vehicle shall while on motion be efficiently 
silent to avoid unnecessary noise and no cut outs or open exhausts shall be used. 
B 1577 
 
 
(2) Exhaust pipes for heavy duty diesel operated trucks shall be positioned 
to the kerb or near side. 
 
(3) The exhaust pipe of any motor vehicle shall not emit excessive gas. 
 
122.—(1) All motor vehicles shall have complete headlights, parking lights 
and trafficating lights in good working condition. 
 
(2) All motor vehicles and trailers between sunset and sunrise, shall be 
required to carry lighted lamps which shall be electric or other kind of light 
approved for the purpose by the appropriate authority and no other light of any 
colour other than those which are laid down in these Regulations shall be exhibited 
on any vehicle without the express permission in writing of the appropriate 
authority, provided that all illuminated mascots, if fitted as a standard fitting may 
be retained and illuminated direction trafficators may be used. 
 
(3) The lamps referred to in sub-regulation (2) of this regulation shall be 
placed as follows— 
 
(a) motor vehicles, except motorcycles without side-cars, shall carry at 
least two lamps in front, one on each side of the vehicle, so constructed or 
placed as to exhibit a white light which shall be within a reasonable distance in 
the direction towards which the vehicle is facing and clearly indicate the 
width of the vehicle ; 
(b) in the case of commercial vehicles when either of the lamps referred to 
in regulation (a) of this regulation is placed in such a position that the distance 
of the centre of the lamp from the extreme outside point of the vehicle on its 
appropriate side exceeds 0.305 metres two additional lamps shall be fitted at 
the front side of the vehicle one of each side so that its centre shall not exceed 
the aforesaid distance of 0.305 metres and so clearly as to indicate the width 
of the vehicle to approaching traffic and the lamps shall be focused below the 
horizontal and exhibit a light of sufficient power only to indicate the width of 
the vehicle ; 
(c) all motor vehicles shall carry at least two tail lamps with reflectors 
which when illuminated shall be visible within a reasonable distance and shall 
be placed one on either side of the rear of the vehicle so clearly as to indicate 
its width; one of such lamps shall be so constructed as to illuminate and 
render easily distinguishable every letter and figure on the identification plate 
fixed on the back of the motor vehicle, unless a separate lamp is carried 
which adequately fulfils this purpose ; 
(d) a motorcycl e without a side-car shall carry one lamp in front so 
constructed or placed as to reveal a white light visible within a reasonable 
distance in the direction towards which the motorcycle is facing ; 
 
(e) a motorcycle without a side car shall have one red tail lamp with a 
reflector and when illuminated shall be visible within a reasonable distance 
and shall be placed in an unobstructed position on the rear of the motorcycle and 
be so constructed as to illuminate or render easily distinguishable every letter and 
figure on the identification plate fixed on the back of the motorcycle ; 
 
 
 
 
 
Lighting 
system.  
B 1578 
 
 
(f)   motor vehicles shall carry two yellow stop lights which shall be 
illuminated whenever the foot brake of the vehicle is engaged and shall be 
placed at the back of the vehicle; provided that a motorcycle with or without 
a side car shall carry only one such stop light. 
(g) when a trailer is attached to a motor vehicle, paragraph (b), (e) and (f) 
of this sub-regulation shall also apply to the trailer ; 
(h) trailers shall be fitted with reflectors on both sides of the back of the 
trailer showing the letter “T” in amber written on white reflective background 
of the tail board which shall be of a minimum height of 10.152 metres; 
(i) any head lamp shall be placed so as to project above the bottom of the 
frame of the windscreen and shall not be placed more than 1.069 metres or 
less than 0.601 metres from the ground. 
(j) no side, parking or rear lamp shall exceed six watts ; 
(k) no head lamp shall be used unless such lamp is so constructed, fitted 
or maintained that the beam of light emitted there from— 
(i) is permanently deflected downwards to such extent that it is at all 
times incapable of dazzling any person, standing on the same horizontal 
plane as the vehicle at the greater distance of not more  than 6.100 metres 
from the lamp whose high level is not less than 1.070 metres above the 
plane ; 
(ii) can be deflected downwards or both downwards to the right at the 
wheel of the driver in such a manner as to render it incapable of dazzling 
any person in the circumstances aforesaid ; or 
(iii) can be extinguished by the operation of a device at the same time 
causing a beam of light to be emitted from the light which conforms with 
sub-regulation (1) of this regulation ; 
(l) all motor vehicle s shall be fitte d with a devic e for deflectin g or 
extinguishing lights ; 
(m) no light other than a yellow light or light of such other colour as may 
be prescribed shall be affixed to the front of any vehicle ; and 
(n) no light other than the red light shall be affixed to the rear of any 
vehicle except that a white light may be exhibited when the vehicle is in the 
process of being reversed. 
 
(4) Motor vehicles exceeding 9.144 metres in length shall be required to 
carry the following additional lights : 
(a) two white lights, not exceeding six watts, which shall be placed on the 
front, at the extreme offside and nearside, and at the highest point of the 
vehicle, so as to indicate to approaching drivers the width and height of the 
vehicle ; and 
(b) two red lights, not exceeding six watts, which shall be placed on the 
rear at the extreme offside and nearside, and at the highest practicable point 
B 1579 
 
 
of the vehicle, so as to indicate to approaching drivers from the rear, the 
width and height of the vehicle. 
 
123. All motor vehicles shall have reflective red and silver tapes fitted to 
the rear and sides of the vehicle in a manner conforming to the specifications in 
Schedule 16 to these Regulations of the vehicle which shall be 101.60mm (4 
inches) in width and 305mm (12 inches) in length as provided in Schedule 16 to 
these Regulations. 
 
124.—(1) A motor vehicle shall be fitted with electric horn sounding not 
more than a single note and the use by motor vehicles of any form of warning 
appliances other than of a type approved by the appropriate authority is prohibited. 
 
(2) No motor vehicle shall be fitted with excessively loud horns such that 
when used the sound would constitute a nuisance or distraction to other road 
users. 
 
125.—(1) All vehicles shall be equipped with at least two mirrors which 
shall be fitted externally, one on the offside and the other on the nearside of the 
vehicle and the mirrors shall be so constructed or fitted to the motor vehicle as 
to assist the driver to be aware of traffic to the rear and on both sides rearward. 
 
(2) A motor vehicle shall carry a driving mirror which shall be so fixed 
inside the vehicle as to enable the driver when driving to have a clear view 
reflected in the mirror of any following traffic. 
 
126.—(1) Every vehicle shall have fitted in the front and rear seats, seat 
belts and child safety seats which shall be securely worn by the driver and the 
other occupants of the vehicle while the vehicle is on motion 
 
(2) A seat belt per seating position in a motor vehicle, and if seating 
accommodation is provided for more than two persons abreast, whether by 
means of continuous seat commonly known as bench seat or by separate seats, 
the seat belts for the person other than those seated next to the body of the car 
may consist only of the lap strap seatbelt. 
 
(3) The driver of a motor vehicle shall be responsible for the children who 
are passengers in such a vehicle and shall ensure that - 
 
(a) the proper use of child locks in every vehicle where one is installed ; 
and 
(b) the proper use of child safety seats for every child that is 7 years and 
below ; and 
(c) that child seats are not installed in the front row of any vehicle. 
 
(4) A child shall be exempted from the provisions of this regulation where 
a medical report is produced and signed by a licenced medical practitioner to the 
effect that it is inadvisable on medical grounds for the child to wear a seat belt. 
 
(5) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this regulation commits 
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 
6 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
 
 
 
Reflective 
stickers for 
vehicles. 
 
 
 
 
Horns. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Driving 
mirrors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety belts 
and child 
safety seats. 
B 1580 
 
 
Wheel 
alignment. 
 
 
 
 
Vehicle 
steering and 
prohibition 
of right 
hand drive. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Springs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laminated 
windscreen 
and safety 
glass. 
127. A motor vehicle or trailer when moving on any public road shall have 
its wheels properly aligned to the chassis so that the true rolling motion of the 
wheels or trailer shall be conveyed to the road and no motor vehicle or trailer 
with a defective wheel, steel hub, or axle tree, shall be used on any public road. 
 
128.—(1)  A motor vehicle shall be provided with a strong and reliable 
steering gear which shall be provided in such a state of repair and adjustment as 
to allow the vehicle to be turned readily and with certainty and the steering 
apparatus or driving gear of a motor vehicle shall be so arranged that the driver 
can manipulate the controls with certainty and at the same time have a clear 
view of the road. 
 
(2) A motor vehicle for use on Nigerian roads shall be equipped with steering 
air bag installed to prevent head injury to the driver in case of a crash. 
 
(3) The importation of any vehicle with steering apparatus fitted on the 
right hand side of the vehicle is prohibited. 
 
(4) A motor vehicle shall not be registered or driven on any public road if 
the steering apparatus of the motor vehicle is fitted on the right hand side of the 
vehicle. 
 
(5) Upon the arrest of any vehicle with steering apparatus fitted on the 
right hand side of the vehicle, the appropriate authority may apply to the High 
Court for an order of forfeiture of the vehicle to the Commission and the vehicle 
shall thereafter be destroyed. 
 
(6) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this regulation commits 
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N20,000:00 or 6 months 
imprisonment or to both. 
 
129.—(1) A motor vehicle, including motorcycle and semi-trailer, shall be 
equipped with suitable free acting or efficient springs, and these springs shall be 
kept at all times in proper alignment or properly secured to the axle or to the 
frame of the vehicle so that no undue lateral movement is allowed. 
 
(2) In this regulation, “motor vehicle” includes vehicles with air or hydraulic 
suspensions.  
 
130.—(1)  All glass fitted to a motor vehicle shall be laminated or safety 
glass approved by the appropriate authority and shall be maintained in such 
condition as not to obscure the vision of the driver while the vehicle is being 
driven on any public road, and no ornaments or impediments of any description 
shall be placed on or near such glass which are likely to obscure the vision of the 
driver to both the front and the rear of the vehicle. 
 
(2) All glass fitted to a vehicle shall be clear and transparent to enable 
persons outside the vehicles see whoever is inside the vehicle and all such glass 
shall in no way be tinted except as may be approved by the appropriate authority 
for security reasons. 
B 1581 
 
 
131. A motor vehicle shall be fitted with electronically or mechanically 
operated windscreen wipers which shall be maintained and kept in proper working 
condition. 
 
132. A motor vehicle or trailer shall be provided with mudguards to catch 
as far as practicable mud or water thrown up by the rotation of the wheels 
unless adequate protection is afforded by the body of the vehicle. 
 
133. Every motor vehicle shall be fitted with an efficient speedometer 
which shall be plus or minus ten per cent accurate at 50 kilometres per hour and 
shall be maintained in proper working condition at all times. 
 
134. Tankers carrying spirit, explosives or other inflammable substances 
shall— 
 
(a) be fitted with double pole armoured wiring with insulated return electrical 
units and a battery insulation master switch ; 
(b) carry warning danger labels to be displayed conspicuously at the front 
and rear of the vehicle as specified in Schedule 12  to these Regulations ; 
(c) under no circumstance carry additional freight or load on top of the 
tanker ; and 
(d) park in designated parking lots approved by the appropriate authority 
and which shall be away from populated areas. 
 
135. A motorcycle shall be fitted with two leg guards placed in such a 
position and of a type approved by the appropriate authority. 
 
136.—(1)   Notwithstandin g the provision s of sub-regulatio n (2) of 
regulation 117 of these Regulations, the appropriate authority may grant a 
permit in writing for particular occasions, for the carriage by a motor vehicle 
or trailer of any specified freight or load which by reason of the nature of the 
freight or load is incapable of being so placed on the vehicle as to conform to 
these Regulations.  
 
(2) The permit referred to in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall be 
carried by the driver of the motor vehicle on such occasion or occasions and 
shall be produced by him on demand by any appropriate authority. 
 
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of regulation 117 of these Regulations, 
the appropriate authority may grant a permit in writing for particular occasion(s) 
for the use of a motor vehicle or trailer which does not conform with the 
requirement of the said regulation and such permit shall be subject to any conditions 
endorsed thereon and shall be carried by the driver of the motor vehicle and shall 
be produced by him on demand by any appropriate authority. 
 
(4) Notwithstandin g the provisions of regulation 117, the appropriate 
authority may grant a permit in writing exempting a specific type of motor 
vehicle or trailer from the requirements of the said regulation. 
Windscreen 
wipers.  
 
 
Mudguards. 
 
 
 
Speedo- 
meters. 
 
 
Spirit 
tankers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Motorcycle 
leg guards. 
 
 
Exemption 
and issue of 
permits for 
special 
freight or 
load. 
B 1582 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions 
for use of 
trailer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Illuminated 
indicators. 
(5) The permit referred to in this regulation shall state concisely and precisely 
the conditions which have necessitated the issuance of the permit. 
137.—(1) A semi-trailer shall not be used on any public road unless— 
(a) the coupling provided for attaching the trailer to a prime mover shall be 
efficient for the purpose ; 
(b) the three or four wheeled semi-trailer exceeding 0.508 tonnes net weight 
or two wheeled trailer exceeding 0.254 tonnes net weight shall have a brake 
in good working condition which shall be operated from the cab of the motor 
vehicle and which when applied shall cause two of the wheels of the trailer on 
the same axle to be so held that the wheels shall be effectually prevented from 
revolving, or shall have the same effect in stopping the trailer as if such 
wheels were so held ; 
(c) the gross weight of a two or three wheeled trailer shall not exceed four 
tonnes and the gross weight of a four wheeled trailer shall not exceed the 
prescribed axle limit as provided in Form MVA 29 of Schedule 15 to these 
Regulations ; 
(d) not more than twelve tonnes shall be carried on any single axle or 
sixteen tonnes on a tandem axle of a trailer ; 
(e) the wheel base of any trailer having an axle weight of six tonnes or over 
shall not be less than 3.048 metres between axle centres ; or 
( f ) not more than one passenger may be carried or be permitted to be 
carried in a trailer. 
 
(2) The provisions of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall not apply 
where a trailer is drawn only by a tractor. 
 
(3) The appropriate authority may by consent in writing, and subject to 
any condition which may be imposed; exempt a particular trailer from these 
provisions and may authorise the appropriate authority to give consent in writing. 
 
138.—(1)  A motor vehicle (including motorcycle) shall be fitted with 
efficient direction trafficators and shall conform to any of the following— 
 
(a) two direction trafficators which shall, when in operation, be in the 
form of an illuminated sign of amber colour of a minimum illuminated length 
of 0.203 metres and of a maximum illuminated breath of one-fourth of the 
length and the illumination surface shall be visible from both the front and the 
rear of the vehicle provided that the illuminated trafficators of all articulated 
vehicles shall cover the whole length of both sides of such vehicles; 
 
(b) four direction trafficators two of which shall be fitted at the front of 
the vehicle and two at the rear of the vehicle, which shall, when in operation, 
be in the form of a flashing sign clearly visible within a reasonable distance 
when facing the front of the vehicle and shall be of an amber or red colour 
and they shall be fitted to the front and the rear of the vehicle in such a 
position as to indicate clearly when in operation, that the vehicle is turning 
either left or right; or 
B 1583 
 
 
(c) two direction trafficators one of which shall be fitted to the near side of 
the vehicle and one to the far side of the vehicle which shall, when in operation, 
be in the form of a flashing sign clearly visible within a reasonable distance 
when facing both the front and rear of the vehicle and front part of each 
indicator shall be of an amber or white colour and the rear part shall be of an 
amber or red colour and they shall be fitted in such a manner as to indicate 
clearly when in operation, that the vehicle is turning either left or right. 
 
(2) In the case of a motor vehicle not fitted with electric lighting equipment 
or where it is impracticable to obtain an illuminated indicator conforming to the 
requirements of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation every motor vehicle including 
a motorcycle with or without side car shall be fitted with at least two efficient 
direction trafficators which shall be in the form of a pointer not less than 0.305 
metres in length and 51 millimetres in breadth presenting, when in operation, a 
white surface visible from both the front and the rear of the vehicle. 
 
(3) Direction trafficators intended to indicate a right hand turn shall be 
fitted only on the near side and direction trafficators intended to indicate a left 
hand turn shall be fitted only on the off side or left side of the vehicle and the 
driver of the vehicle, when on his driving seat, shall be readily aware that such 
trafficators are operating correctly. 
 
(4) A direction indicator shall be so fitted that, when not in operation it shall 
not be likely to mislead any other road user or any person controlling traffic. 
 
(5) A light shown by a direction indicator shall be diffused by means of 
frosted glass or other adequate means. 
 
139.—(1)  A person shall not drive any uninsured vehicle, trailer, stage 
carriage or omnibus on any public road, and any person who contravenes the 
provision of this regulation commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction 
to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
(2) The insurance of vehicles as required under these Regulations shall be 
in accordance with the provisions of the Motor Vehicle (Third Party Insurance) 
Act, 2004 or comprehensive insurance cover. 
 
(3) It shall be an offence to drive any vehicle with forged or false insurance 
papers and a person in contravention of this provision commits an offence and 
shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 6 months 
imprisonment or to both. 
 
140.—(1) A vehicle intended to be used on any public road, shall before it 
is registered or licenced, be submitted for examination in accordance with this 
regulation, upon payment of the prescribed fees. 
 
(2) The examination shall be conducted for new private vehicles every 
two (2) years or when it has covered a mileage of 100,000 kilometres whichever 
comes first. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance of 
vehicles. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Examination 
to ascertain 
condition of 
vehicles. 
B 1584 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Examination 
of 
commercial 
and private 
vehicles. 
 
 
 
 
Road- 
worthiness 
certificate. 
(3) The examinations under sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall be 
conducted — 
 
(a) for all other private cars beyond two years old once in a year ; and 
 
(b) in the case of commercia l vehicles , omnibuse s and trailers , the 
examination shall be every six months. 
 
(4) The examination shall be conducted to determine whether— 
(a) the motor vehicl e is road-worth y conformin g to the prescribed 
requirements relating to its construction, condition, accessories and other 
equipment ; and 
 
(b) the condition of the motor vehicle is such that its use on the road will 
not pose a danger to any other road user or cause damage to the road or any 
road furniture. 
 
(5) An examinatio n under this regulatio n shall be conducte d by the 
appropriate authority or any other examiner as the appropriate authority may 
authorise to conduct the examination. 
 
(6) No fee shall be payable by the owner for the first examination of any 
vehicle under this regulation but the prescribed fee shall be required to be paid in 
respect of every subsequent examination of the vehicle. 
 
141. The appropriate authority may authorise an examiner to conduct the 
examinations subject to such conditions as the appropriate authority shall determine 
and the appropriate authority may for the purposes of motor vehicle examinations — 
 
(a) maintain vehicle examination stations where examinations may be 
conducted ; and 
(b) maintain the apparatus for conducting the examinations. 
 
142.—(1) Where a vehicle is found to be road-worthy, the Vehicle Inspection 
Officer shall issue a certificate to that effect as in Form MVA 19 specified in 
Schedule 3 to these Regulations which shall remain valid in the case of private 
vehicles and motorcycles for twelve months and in every other case for six 
months. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding, the provisions of this regulation, the issuance of road- 
worthiness certificate to any particular vehicle be it private or commercial as in 
Form MVA 20 specified in Schedule 3 to these Regulations shall be accompanied 
by a road-worthiness validity tag which shall be conspicuously displayed on the 
windscreen of such vehicle. 
 
(3) A duplicate certificate shall be issued upon application to the Vehicle 
Inspection Officer and upon payment of the prescribed fees but where the 
registration book has been lost the appropriate authority shall authorised the 
issuance of a replacement of the certificate (if any). 
 
(4) The requirement for road worthiness certificate shall apply to motor 
vehicles owned by military and paramilitary organisations. 
B 1585 
 
 
(5) A person shall not drive, use or permit any other person to drive or use 
any motor vehicle on a road except there is in force, a valid road - worthiness 
certificate in respect of the motor vehicle. 
 
143.—(1)  Where a vehicle is found not to be road-worthy in any respect 
whatsoever the owner of the vehicle shall be served with a notice in writing as 
specified in Form MVA 21 set out in Schedule 3 to these Regulations by the 
appropriate authority setting out the defect to be remedied, and a red sticker 
pasted on the windscreen of the vehicle and the owner shall not after receipt of 
such notice permit the vehicle to be used or submit the vehicle for licence to any 
Authority until such time as the defects have been remedied. 
 
(2) The form of the red sticker may be determined by the Commission and 
the appropriate authority, from time to time. 
 
144. A notice “OFF THE ROAD” shall be affixed on the windscreen of any 
vehicle found to be unroad-worthy, by the appropriate authority. The notice 
shall be as prescribed in Form MVA 22 of Schedule 3 to these Regulations. 
 
145.—(1)  No motor vehicle shall be used on any public road if the axle 
weight does not comply with the weight limits prescribed in Schedule 15 to 
these Regulations. 
 
(2) The appropriate authority may, by consent in writing and subject to 
any conditions, exempt any vehicle trailer or plant used for the construction or 
maintenance of road or bridges from complying with this regulation. 
 
(3) A consent given under this regulation shall be carried at all times on the 
vehicle until its revocation or expiration. 
 
146. A motor vehicle other than a two-wheeled motorcycle without a side- 
car shall be equipped at the rear with at least two red reflex reflectors other than 
the triangular form and— 
 
(a) on either side, the outer edge of the illuminating surface farthest from 
the vehicle’s median longitudinal plane shall not be more than 0.40 metres 
from the extreme outer edge of the vehicle ; and 
(b) the reflex reflectors shall be visible to the driver of an approaching 
vehicle from the rear at night in clear weather, at a distance of at least 150 
metres when illuminated by the driving lights of that vehicle. 
 
147.—(1) A trailer shall be equipped with at least two red reflex reflectors 
and— 
 
(a) each reflector shall have the shape of an equilateral triangle with one 
vertex uppermost and one side horizontal, and with sides not less than 0.15 
metres or more than 0.20 metres long ; 
(b) on either side, the outer edge of the illuminating surface farthest from 
the trailer’s median longitudinal plane shall not be more than 0.40 metres 
from the extreme outer edge of the trailer so however that, any trailer with an 
 
 
 
 
 
Notice of 
defects of 
unroadworthy 
vehicle. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Off the Road 
notice. 
 
 
Vehicles not 
exceeding 
thirty two 
tonnes gross 
weight. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Motor 
vehicles to 
have reflex 
reflectors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trailers to 
be equipped 
with 
reflectors. 
B 1586 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ascertain- 
ment of 
weight. 
overall width not exceeding 0.80 metres may be equipped with only one 
reflection if it is coupled to a two-wheeled motorcycle without a side car; and 
the reflectors shall meet the requirements for visibility specified in these 
Regulations. 
(2) A reflector required to be fitted to a vehicle under this regulation shall— 
(a) not be lower than 30cm and not higher than 150cm from ground level, 
measured to the centre of the retro-reflector, provided that if due to the design 
of the vehicle, it is impossible to fit retro-reflectors on the sides of the body 
of the vehicle at the prescribed height, the retro-reflectors shall be fitted as 
near as possible to the prescribed height ; 
(b) where it is a white retro-reflector, to be in a vertical position and face 
squarely to the front ; and where it is a red retro-reflector, to be in a vertical 
position and face squarely to the back ; 
(c) where it is a yellow retro-reflector, to be in a vertical position and face 
squarely to the side not withstanding anything to the contrary contained in 
these Regulations ; 
(d) be clean and in good condition and not be obscured to the extent that it 
will be rendered ineffective ; and 
(e) not be fitted to any movable or rotating part of the vehicle except that 
this provision shall not apply to a warning sign contemplated under these 
Regulations. 
 
(3) A motor vehicle manufactured , built or importe d by a registered 
manufacturer, builder or importer may have a red retro-reflector fitted at the 
side towards the rear of the motor vehicle. 
 
(4) Where due to the design of the vehicle it is not possible to fit a retro- 
reflector in the prescribed position, it may be fitted as close as possible to the 
position prescribed under this regulation. 
 
(5) A trailer shall be equipped at the front and the rear with two white 
reflex reflectors each, other than triangular form reflectors and the reflectors 
shall meet the positioning and visibility requirements specified under these 
Regulations. 
 
148.—(1)  An appropriate authority may, at any time and for reasonable 
cause, require a commercial vehicle or trailer to be driven to any reasonably 
convenient place to have its net or gross weight or any axle weight ascertained, 
and the person driving or in charge of such vehicle or trailer shall comply 
accordingly. 
 
(2) The appropriate authority may cause weight bridges or other devices 
for detection to be installed on roads at designated points and may erect road 
signs which shall require a category of motor vehicle to be weighed or subjected 
to a test using the device. 
B 1587 
 
 
(3) Any person driving a vehicle or who being in charge of a motor vehicle 
disobeys or disregards a direction or a road sign created pursuant to the provisions 
of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation; or who, when required to submit the 
vehicle for weighing by the appropriate authority or any other public officer 
authorised on its behalf, fails or refuses to submit the motor vehicle to be weighed, 
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a 
term of 6 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
(4) A person shall not drive, take charge, cause or permit to be driven a 
motor vehicle or trailer on any public road as to contravene any of the provisions 
of this regulation. 
 
149.—(1)  Subject to the provisions of these Regulations, heavy goods 
vehicle licences issued by the appropriate authority shall be required for driving 
agricultural machines, articulated vehicles, earth moving vehicles, trailers and 
spirit carrying tankers. 
 
(2) A heavy goods vehicle driver’s licence shall be issued under this regulation 
upon the completion of a driving test conducted by the appropriate authority or 
any approved driving school in pursuance of regulation 56 of these Regulations 
and upon an application for the licence made to the appropriate authority. 
 
(3) A heavy goods vehicle driver’s licence shall, unless previously revoked, 
continue in force for three years from the date on which it is expressed to take effect. 
 
(4) Subject to the provision of regulation 47, a heavy goods vehicle driver’s 
licence may at any time be suspended or revoked by the appropriate authority on 
the ground that the holder is not a fit and proper person to hold such a licence 
and during any time of suspension such a licence shall be void. 
 
(5) Where the holder of a heavy goods vehicle driver’s licence is disqualified 
under sub-regulation (4) above, the appropriate authority shall not afterwards 
grant him another licence to drive a heavy goods vehicle of any class unless 
satisfied that he has since the disqualificatio n passed the prescribed test of 
competence to drive vehicles of that class, and until he passes that test, any 
licence obtained by him shall be void. 
 
150.—(1)    A  person shall not drive, permit or cause another person to 
drive or park a heavy goods vehicle of any class mentioned under this regulation, 
on any road or area on which the driving or parking of such vehicles has been 
prohibited by any appropriate authority. 
 
(2) The maximum load allowed by the appropriate authority to be carried 
at any time for vehicles under this regulation shall be inscribed in figures on the 
two front doors of the vehicle. 
 
(3) Any freight or load carried shall where the vehicle is an open trailer or 
truck, be secured or covered in a manner as to render it impossible for such 
freight or load to fall out while the vehicle is in motion and no freight or load 
whatsoever shall be carried on the top or outside the hood, canopy or roof of 
such vehicle other than the spare tyres for such vehicle unless the vehicle is in 
possession of a certificate issued to that effect by appropriate authority. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Heavy goods 
vehicle. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restriction 
on driving or 
parking of 
heavy goods 
vehicle. 
B 1588 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transporta - 
tion of 
hazardous 
goods. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Speed limit. 
(4) No load may protrude more than 0.914 metres beyond the front elevation 
of the vehicle or more than 1.829 metres beyond the rear elevation of the vehicle 
or more than 0.76 metres beyond either side of the vehicle, and where the load 
projects more than 1.219 metres behind the rear elevation of such vehicle, a red 
flag shall be fixed by day to the extreme end of the load and a red lamp by night 
in a similar position and the flag or lamp shall be clearly visible from the rear. 
 
(5) All vehicles under this regulation shall have complete headlights, parking 
lights and trafficating lights in good working condition and vehicles exceeding 
9.144 metres in length shall be required to carry the following additional lights— 
 
(a) two white lights, not exceeding six watts, which shall be placed on the 
front, at the extreme offside and nearside, and at the highest point of the 
vehicle, so as to indicate to approaching drivers the width and height of the 
vehicle ; and 
(b) two red lights, not exceeding six watts, which shall be placed on the 
rear at the extreme offside and nearside, and at the highest practicable point 
of the vehicle, so as to indicate to approaching drivers from the rear, the 
width and height of the vehicle. 
 
151.—(1) A vehicle or trailer used to transport hazardous goods or materials 
shall— 
 
(i) be suitable for transporting hazardous goods or materials and be free 
from any defect likely to increase the likelihood of such goods or materials 
causing a danger to other road users ; and 
(ii) where the goods or materials are contained in a holding container, be 
fitted with holding twist locks or fitted with other equipment or gadget for 
securing the holding container on a vehicle. 
 
(2) Any equipment on a vehicle used for loading or offloading hazardous 
goods or materials shall be suitable for that purpose and free from any defect 
likely to cause danger to other road users while transferring such goods or 
materials. 
 
(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this regulation commits 
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N5,000:00 or to a term of 
9 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
PART  XIII—SPEED LIMITS 
 
152.—(1) A person shall not drive a vehicle on any public road in excess of 
the prescribed speed limit provided in Schedule 8 to these regulations or as may 
be published from time to time by the Commission. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding sub-regulation (1) of this regulation no person shall 
drive a vehicle on any public road in excess of the speed limit indicated by an 
appropriate road traffic sign in respect of that road. 
B 1589 
 
 
(3) A person shall not ride or drive recklessly any vehicle or drive at a 
speed of more than 12.87 kilometres an hour, any vehicle carrying a load which 
projects 0.914 metres or more beyond either end of such vehicles. 
 
(4) A person shall not drive a vehicle on any public road which is not fitted 
with a speed limiter. 
 
(5) Any person who acts in contravention of this regulation shall be guilty 
of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N3,000:00 or a term of 
imprisonment of 3 months or to both. 
 
(6) In determining the speed at which a particular vehicle is travelling on 
any public road, members of the Corps shall make use of Radar Gun or any 
other device that may be approved by the Commission from time to time. 
 
(7) Radar Gun referred to under sub-regulation (6) of this regulation shall 
be certified and calibrated once in every 12 calendar months by the Standard 
Organisation of Nigeria. 
 
153. Notwithstandin g the provision s sub-regulation s (1) and (2), of 
regulation 152 of these Regulations the driver of a fire fighting vehicle, a rescue 
vehicle or an ambulance who drives such vehicle in the carrying out of his 
duties, an officer of the law who drives a vehicle in the carrying out of his duties 
or any person driving a vehicle while engaged in civil protection may exceed the 
prescribed speed limit provided that - 
 
(a) he shall drive the vehicle concerned with due regard to the safety of 
other road users ; and 
(b) in the case of any such fire-fighting vehicle, rescue vehicle, ambulance 
or vehicle driven by a person while he is so engaged in civil protection, such 
vehicle shall be fitted with a device capable of emitting a sound and with an 
identification lamp, as prescribed by the Commission, and such device shall 
be so sounded and such lamp shall be in operation while the vehicle is driven 
in excess of the applicable speed limit. 
 
PART  XIV—USE  OF  SIRENS 
 
154.—(1)  No person other than the President of the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria, Vice President , Presiden t of the Senate, Speaker of the House of 
Representatives, Chief Justice of Nigeria, Deputy President of the Senate, Deputy 
Speaker of the House of Representatives, Governors and Deputy Governors of 
States shall drive a vehicle on any public road using sirens, flashers or beacon lights. 
 
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-regulation (1) of 
this regulation commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of 
N3,000:00 or to a term of 7 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
155.—(1)  A driver or person having control of a vehicle who knowingly 
and without reasonable excuse obstructs a vehicle authorised by this regulation 
to use sirens, flashers or beacon light commits an offence and shall be liable on 
conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or 6 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use of 
emergency 
vehicles. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Persons 
authorised to 
use siren, 
flashers and 
beacons. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Obstruction 
of vehicles 
using sirens, 
flashers and 
beacon light. 
B 1590 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Traffic signs, 
signals and 
notices on 
public roads. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Destruction 
of traffic 
signs and 
signals. 
(2) The driver of any vehicle authorised to use siren, flashers and beacon 
light shall be duly certified by the appropriate authority to drive such vehicle. 
 
(3) Any person who drives a vehicle having or using a siren, flasher or 
beacon light without the certification from the appropriate authority commits an 
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or 6 months 
imprisonment or to both. 
 
(4) A person shall not import into Nigeria or manufacture sirens, flashers, 
or beacon light unless such a person obtains a permit from the appropriate 
authority for that purpose. 
 
(5) Any siren, flasher, or beacon light imported or manufactured in Nigeria 
without a permit obtained in accordance with the provisions of this regulation 
shall be forfeited to the Commission and the Commission shall sell by auction, 
such items to authorised dealers or manufacturers after obtaining a court order. 
 
(6) Any person who is involved in the importation or manufacturing of 
siren, flasher or beacon light without permit from the appropriate authority 
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to 
a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
PART  XV—TRAFFIC  SIGNS 
 
156.—(1) A person driving or in control of a vehicle shall— 
 
(a) obey all directions, whether verbal or signal given by the appropriate 
authority to stop the vehicle or make it slow down or keep to any directed line 
of traffic or to park at an indicated place ; 
(b) obey all traffic signs or traffic signals on any public road ; 
(c) obey all notices on any public road where such notices are erected or 
exhibited in accordance with these Regulations or by an authority responsible 
for the construction or maintenance of the public road for the purpose of 
prohibiting, restricting, or regulating traffic over bridges or sections of the 
public road ; and 
(d) stop when approaching a pedestrian crossing to allow pedestrians 
standing at the pedestrian crossing to cross the road. 
 
(2) No person shall, unless otherwise directed by an appropriate authority, 
fail to comply with any direction conveyed by a road traffic sign displayed in the 
prescribed manner as specified in Schedule 9 to these Regulations. 
 
(3) Failure to obey a road traffic sign is an offence and any person caught 
contravening this regulation shall be liable to pay a fine of N5,000:00 for each 
traffic sign violation or to a term of 9 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
157.—(1) No person shall damage any road traffic sign or traffic signal, 
or any other sign, signal, marking or other device, displayed in terms of these 
Regulations, or without lawful authority remove any road sign or traffic signal 
or alter the position thereof or the inscription, lettering, colour or marking thereof 
or thereon. 
B 1591 
 
 
(2) Any person who contravenes the provision of this regulation commits 
an offence and shall be liable to a fine of N5,000.00 or to a term of 9 months 
imprisonment or to both. 
 
(3) In any prosecution for a contravention of or a failure to comply with a 
provision of  sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, it shall be presumed, in the 
absence of evidence to the contrary, that the road traffic sign concerned was 
displayed by the appropriate authority under the power conferred by this regulation 
or any other law. 
 
158. The driver of a fire-fighting vehicle, a rescue vehicle or an ambulance 
who drives such vehicle in the performance of his duties, an officer of the law 
who drives a vehicle under emergency situation or while engaged in civil protection 
may disregard the directions of a road traffic sign which is displayed in the 
prescribed manner, provided that— 
 
(a) he shall drive the vehicle concerned with due regard to the safety of 
other road users ; and 
(b) in the case of any such fire-fighting vehicle, rescue vehicle, ambulance 
or vehicle driven by a person while he is so engaged in civil protection, such 
vehicle shall be fitted with a device capable of emitting a sound and with an 
identification lamp, as prescribed by the Commission, and such device shall 
be so sounded and such lamp shall be in operation while the vehicle is driven 
in disregard of the road traffic sign. 
 
PART  XVI—TRAFFIC ATORS 
 
159.—(1) A person driving or in control of a vehicle must ensure that there 
are mechanically or electrically operated trafficators fitted to the vehicles which 
shall be used as signals while driving. 
 
(2) A person driving or in control of a vehicle may in addition to using 
mechanicall y or electrically operated trafficators make use of hand signals 
specified in Schedule 7 of these Regulations. 
 
(3) Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this regulation 
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to 
a term of 3 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
160. The driver of a vehicle on a public road who intends to stop such 
vehicle or suddenly reduce the speed thereof, or to turn such vehicle to the left 
or to the right, or to move such vehicle to the left or right on the road, shall give 
a conspicuous signal, in the manner prescribed in this regulation, of his intention, 
visible to any person approaching him from the front or from the rear or from 
the side, and of a duration sufficient to warn any such person of his intention. 
 
PART XVII—RULES ON ROAD CROSSING 
 
161.—(1) The driver or person having control of any vehicle shall— 
 
(a) not cross a public road unless the road is clear of moving traffic or a 
sufficient distance to allow him to cross the road without obstructing or 
endangering any other road user ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Persons 
exempted 
from 
obeying 
traffic signs 
and signal. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Usage of 
trafficators.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compulsory 
usage of 
trafficators.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rules on 
driving on 
public roads. 
B 1592 
 
 
(b) not enter an intersection or other marked area, unless there is sufficient 
space on the other side of the intersection or other marked area to accommodate 
the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or 
pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed ; 
(c) except when overtaking vehicles proceeding in the same direction, 
pass such vehicle only on the left side thereof. 
(d) not enter a public road unless he can do so with safety to himself and 
other road users ; 
(e) slow down and reduc e his speed when approachin g a schoo l or 
playground ; and 
( f ) at all times give preference to children, the elderly, the physically 
challenged and visually impaired persons with any sight aid who wish to 
cross the road at pedestrian crossing points. 
 
(2) The driver of a vehicle shall, where it is necessary by reason of the 
width or condition of the road, slow down his vehicle in order to allow other 
vehicles approaching him or overtaking him to pass. 
 
(3) The driver of a vehicle on a public road divided into traffic lanes by 
appropriate road traffic signs shall not turn from one lane into or across another 
lane unless he can do so without obstructing or endangering other road users. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overtaking. 
(4) When two or more vehicles approach each other, the driver of each 
vehicle shall, where by reason of the width and condition of such public road it 
is necessary or desirable to do, cause his vehicle to slow down for the purpose 
of allowing safe passage of the other vehicle or any other road user. 
 
(5) Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this regulation 
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N3,000:00 in 
addition to any other penalty imposed under any extant law or Regulations. 
 
162.—(1) A driver of a vehicle shall, when approaching and passing another 
vehicle coming from the opposite direction, drive his vehicle on the right or near 
side of the public road. 
 
(2) A driver of a vehicle when overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the 
same direction, shall pass such vehicle on the left or off-side thereof, except 
when the driver in front has signaled his intention to turn left or when vehicles 
are moving slowly in queues and vehicles in the left lane are slower than he is. 
 
(3) The driver of any vehicle shall before rounding any curve or corner, or 
entering or crossing a road or approaching a curve reduce the speed of the 
vehicle and shall in rounding any curve or corner keep as close as possible to the 
right hand side of the road. 
 
(4) The driver of any vehicle shall when negotiating a bend or any curve at 
which the road ahead is not visible for a distance not more than 92 metres or 
entering or crossing or attempting to pass any traffic travelling in the same 
B 1593 
 
 
direction, shall not otherwise than by reason of an enforced stoppage or owing 
to the necessities of traffic, stop his vehicle within 8 metres from any corner. 
 
(5) A person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall— 
 
(a) when driving, maintain complete control over the vehicle and have full 
visibility of the traffic. 
(b) take due cognizance of the signs illustrated in these Regulations, and all 
traffic signs and notices lawfully placed on or near a road for the guidance of 
drivers of vehicles and road users. 
(c) not leave a disabled vehicle on the road if it is incapable of movement 
by pushing it off to the right side, and in such case shall cause the vehicle to 
bear lighted lamps or other warning signs at the front and rear at all times as 
specified in these  Regulations. 
 
(6) The driver of a slow moving vehicle shall drive on the extreme shoulder 
of a public road so as not to cause up to four vehicles being held up and unable 
to overtake. 
 
(7) Any person who fails to observe any of the provisions of this regulation 
commits an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N3,000:00. 
 
PART  XVIII—PARKING  OF  VEHICLES 
 
163.—(1) Every driver of a motor vehicle parking on any road shall park 
in such a way that it does not cause or is likely to cause danger, obstruction or 
undue inconvenience to other road users and if the manner of parking is indicated 
by any sign board or markings on road side, he shall park his vehicle in such 
manner. 
 
(2) A driver of a motor vehicle shall not park his vehicle— 
 
(a) at or near a road crossing, a bend, top of a hill or a humpbacked bridge ; 
(b) on a foot-path ; 
(c) near a traffic light or pedestrian crossing ; 
(d) on a main road or one carrying fast traffic ; 
(e) opposite another parked vehicle or as obstruction to other vehicle ; 
( f ) alongside another parked vehicle; 
(g) on roads or at places or roads where there is a continuous white line 
with or without a broken line ; 
(h) near a bus stop, school or hospital entrance or blocking a traffic sign 
or entrance to a premises or a fire hydrant ; 
(i) on the wrong side of the road ; 
(j) where parking is prohibited ; or 
(k) away from the edge of the footpath. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rules for 
stopping of 
vehicles on 
public roads, 
railway 
crossings, 
etc. 
B 1594 
 
 
 
Removal of 
vehicles for 
wrongful 
stopping.  
 
Vehicles 
approaching 
railway 
crossings. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use of 
communi- 
cation 
devices 
while 
driving. 
164. Where a vehicle is parked in a place or in such a manner as to cause 
an obstruction to other road users and the vehicle is not immediately moved, the 
provisions of regulation 119 of these Regulations shall apply. 
 
165.—(1) The driver of a vehicle approaching a railway level crossing 
shall stop such vehicle within 15 metres but not less than 5 metres from the 
nearest rail of such railway level crossing, and shall not proceed until such 
driver can do safely so. 
 
(2) The driver of a vehicle shall stop the vehicle as described in sub- 
regulation (1) of this regulation above where— 
 
(a) a clearly visible electric or mechanical or signal device gives warning 
of the immediate approach of a train or rail car ; 
(b) a crossing gate is lowered or when a flagman gives a signal of the 
approach or passage of a train or rail car ; or 
(c) an approaching train or rail car is plainly visible and the vehicle is in 
dangerous proximity to such crossing. 
 
(3) A person shall not drive any vehicle through, around or under any 
railway crossing gate or barrier at a railway crossing while such gate or barrier 
is closed or is being opened or closed. 
 
(4) Any person who contravenes this regulation commits an offence and 
shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 3 months 
imprisonment or to both. 
 
Part XIX—RULES  OF  DRIVING  AND  GENERAL  DUTIES  OF  DRIVER 
OF  VEHICLES  OR  PASSENGERS   ON  PUBLIC  ROAD 
 
166.—(1)   No driver of a vehicle shall whilst the vehicle is in motion 
receive or make a telephone call in any form. 
 
(2) An instructor shall not make or receive telephone call in any form while 
supervising a learner undertaking driving lessons. 
 
(3) Any person acting in contravention of the provisions of sub-regulations 
(1) or (2) of this regulation commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction 
to a fine of N4,000:00 or to a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
(4) A person shall not be held to have contravened the provisions of these 
Regulations if at the time of the alleged contravention he is— 
 
(i) using the telephone or other device to call the police, fire service, 
ambulance or other emergency service ; or 
(ii) acting in response to a genuine emergency. 
 
(5) For the purposes of this regulation, a telephone call shall include— 
(i) sending or receiving oral or written messages ; 
(ii) sending or receiving facsimile documents ; 
B 1595 
 
 
(iii) sending or receiving still or moving images ; or 
(iv) accessing, surfing or browsing the internet. 
 
167.—(1)  A person who drives or operates a vehicle on a public road 
dangerously or recklessly commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction 
to a fine of N50,000:00 or to a term of 2 years imprisonment or to both. 
 
(2) For the purposes of this regulation, driving a vehicle on a public road in 
a dangerous or reckless manner includes— 
 
(a) causing such vehicle to travel backwards unless it can be done in 
safety, or cause it to run backwards for a distance or time longer than may be 
necessary for turning or other reasonable purpose ; 
(b) following another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent 
having regard to the speed of such other vehicle and the condition of the 
road, or more closely than is prescribed in these Regulations ; 
(c) driving a vehicle between sunset and sunrise without the use of lighted lamps ; 
(d) permitting any person, animal or object to occupy any position in or on 
such vehicle which may prevent the driver thereof from exercising complete 
control over the movements of the vehicle or signalling his intention of 
stopping, slowing down or changing direction ; 
 
(e) when driving such vehicle, permit any person to take hold of or interfere 
with the steering or operating mechanism of the vehicle ; 
( f ) when driving such vehicle, occupy such position that he does not have 
complete control over the vehicle or does not have a full view of the road 
ahead of such vehicle ; 
(g) leaving the vehicle unattended on any public road with the engine running 
or quit the vehicle without having applied its brakes or adopting such other 
method as will effectively prevent the vehicle from moving from the position 
in which it is left and without taking precautions against the vehicle being 
started in his absence ; 
(h) leaving the vehicle if demobilised or broken down, on any public road 
except at the right or nearside or shoulder of the road and in such case, cause 
such vehicle to bear lighted lamps at the front and rear of the vehicle between 
sunset and sunrise ; 
(i) permitting any person to ride on the wings, running boards, fender, or 
sides of the vehicle except for the purpose of testing the vehicles during 
repairs ; 
(j) permitting, in the case of a commercial vehicle, any person to ride on 
the steps, tail-board, or roof of the vehicle, nor on any load or freight on the 
vehicle or on any trailer drawn thereby ; 
(k) where a vehicle is being drawn by another vehicle, permitting any 
person to be carried in the vehicle being drawn except the person in charge ; 
 
 
 
 
Driving a 
vehicle on a 
public road 
in a 
dangerous or 
reckless 
manner. 
B 1596 
 
 
(l)  if such vehicle is parked or is stationary at the side of a public road, 
driving the vehicle from that position unless he is able to do so without 
interfering with vehicles approaching from any direction and with safety to 
himself  and other road users ; 
(m) allowing any portion of his body to protrude beyond such vehicle 
while it is in motion on a public road except for the purpose of giving any 
hand signal which he is required or authorised to give in terms of these 
Regulations or unless he is engaged in examining or testing such vehicle ; 
(n) causing or allowing the vehicle thereof to run in such manner that it 
emits excessive gas or fumes which would not be emitted if the engine were 
in good condition or ran in an efficient manner ; 
(o) negligently or wilfully depositing or causing or permitting to be deposited 
any petrol or other liquid fuel or any oil or grease or other flammable or 
offensive matter, ashes or other refuse, of whatever nature, from such vehicle 
upon or alongside a public road ; 
(p) causing or allowing the engine thereof to run while petrol or other 
flammable fuel is being delivered into the fuel tank of such vehicle, or cause 
or allow such engine to be started up before the delivery of the petrol or other 
flammable fuel into the fuel tank of such vehicle has been completed and the 
cover of such fuel tank has been replaced ; 
 
(q) be asleep while driving or in control of a vehicle ; 
(r) allowing any person to enter or alight from a vehicle on a public road, 
unless such vehicle is stationary and unless the person can do so with safety 
to himself and other road users ; 
(s)  operating or permitting to be operated on a public road a vehicle in 
such a manner as to cause any excessive noise which can be avoided by the 
exercise of reasonable care on his part ; 
(t) except in the case of a motorcycle, driving a vehicle, without carrying 
at least one spare tyre, capable of being fixed to an axle, a jack or any appliance 
sufficiently strong to lift the vehicle for the purposes of changing a wheel and 
the necessary tools for effecting such a change ; 
(u) driving a vehicle with worn out tyres ; or 
(v) driving a vehicle without a prescribed fire extinguisher. 
 
(3) A driver or any person in charge of a vehicle who overloads the vehicle 
with passengers or loads beyond the capacity permitted or prescribed in these 
regulations commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine of 
N10,000:00 or to a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
(4) A driver or any person in charge of a vehicle who drives a vehicle 
without a windscreen or with cracked or shattered windscreen commits an 
offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine of N3,000:00 or to a term of 6 
months imprisonment  or to both. 
B 1597 
 
 
168.—(1)  No motor vehicle shall have protruding or tailing loads and all 
loads shall be contained within the permissible overall dimension in accordance 
with regulation 118 of these Regulations. 
 
(2) A vehicle shall not have its load spilling on a public road such that it 
causes danger to other road users or litters the public road. All such load shall be 
adequately covered. Any person who contravenes this provision commits an 
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N5,000:00 or to a term of 9 
months imprisonment or to both. 
 
(3) No person, other than the driver, shall take hold of or interfere with the 
steering or operating mechanism of a vehicle while it is in motion on a public 
road, unless it may reasonably be inferred that the driver is no longer capable of 
steering or controlling such vehicle. Any person who contravenes this provision 
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to 
a term of 3 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
(4) No passenger in a vehicle on a public road shall permit any part of his 
body to protrude beyond such vehicle or open the door of a motor vehicle on the 
side available to moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so and 
not longer than a period than is reasonably necessary for passengers to board or 
alight from the vehicle. 
 
(5) A person shall not enter or alight from any vehicle on a public road 
unless the vehicle is stationary and unless he can do so with safety to himself 
and other road users. 
 
(6) No person shall in any way obstructs or molest the driver of a vehicle 
while the vehicle is in motion. 
 
(7) Any person who in any way obstructs or molest the driver of a vehicle 
while the vehicle is in motion commits an offence and is liable on conviction to 
a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 3 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
(8) A motor vehicle shall be so constructed as to enable the driver when 
the vehicle is stationary, to stop the action of any machinery attached thereto, or 
forming part of the vehicle so far as may be necessary for the prevention of 
excessive noise. 
 
169.—(1) A motor vehicle shall not be fitted with an apparatus designed to 
produce or amplify sound other than a motor horn and a person shall not use an 
apparatus designed to produce or amplify sound in or on a motor vehicle except 
under a permit issued by the appropriate authority who may prescribe conditions 
or restrictions to be observed. 
 
(2) A person shall not cause or permit to be caused any form of nuisance 
through preaching or hawking on a stage carriage, omnibus or other passenger 
carrying commercial vehicle while in motion. 
 
(3) Where a vehicle is fitted with a television on the dash board or any part 
of the front compartment of the vehicle, the driver or person in control of such 
Protruding 
or tailing 
loads. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preaching or 
hawking in 
passenger 
carrying 
commercial 
vehicles. 
B 1598 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum 
hours of 
driving. 
a vehicle shall allow the television to be switched off while the vehicle is in 
motion. 
 
(4) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this regulation commits 
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N5,000:00 or to a term of 
9 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
PART  XX—SPECIAL  PROVISIONS   RELATING  TO  THE  DRIVING  OF  VEHICLES 
 
170.—(1) No person shall drive, cause or permit any person employed by 
him to drive any vehicle— 
 
(a) subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation, for 
any continuous period of more than five hours ; 
(b) for periods amounting in the aggregate to more than ten or ten and half 
hours in any period of twenty-four hours commencin g two hours after 
midnight, except that where it is necessary for a driver to conclude a long 
distance journey the period may be extended to twelve and half hours in all ; 
or 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hindering or 
obstructing 
traffic on 
public road. 
(c) where the driver has not had at least eight consecutive hours of rest in 
any period of twenty four hours calculated from the commencement of any 
period of driving. 
 
(2) Where the duration of a journey exceeds five hours the driver shall 
have intervals of rest not less than thirty minutes in every three hours of the said 
journey. 
 
(3) For the purposes of this regulation— 
 
(a) any two or more periods of driving time shall be deemed to be a 
continuous period unless separated by interval of not less than thirty minutes 
for the purpose of enabling the driver to obtain rest and refreshment ; and 
(b) any time spent by a driver on other work in connection with the vehicle 
or load carried thereby shall be reckoned as time spent in driving. 
 
(4) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this regulation commits 
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N3,000:00 or to a term of 
9 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
PART XXI—HINDERING OR OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC ON PUBLIC ROAD 
 
171.—(1) Subject to any other provision in these Regulations or any other 
law, no person shall— 
 
(a) willfully or without appropriate authorization prevent, hinder or interrupt 
the free and proper passage of traffic on public roads ; or 
(b) throw or place on any road ; nails, wires, scrap metal, glass, crockery, 
sharp stones or other substances injurious to other road users. 
 
(2) Any person who contravenes this regulation commits an offence and 
shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 3 months 
imprisonment or to both. 
B 1599 
 
 
PART  XXII—DAMAGE  TO  PUBLIC  ROAD 
 
172.—(1)  No driver of a vehicle or person shall on a public road— 
 
(a) cause a wheel or a part of a vehicle to drag or spin upon the surface of 
the roadway, except in the case of an emergency ; 
(b) make use of chucks or shoes between any wheel of any vehicle moving 
along the roadway and the surface of such roadway ; or 
(c) use any vehicle or thing or move any vehicle or thing on the roadway in 
a manner causing or likely to cause damage thereto. 
 
(2) Where any structural damage has been done to any road or to any 
street or   traffic light   by a person or persons (whether or not the person or 
persons has or have been charged with the offence of causing such damage or 
wit h any othe r offenc e unde r the   Federa l Roa d Safet y Commission 
(Establishment) Act, 2007 or any other law) the appropriate authority shall recover 
the cost of making good such damage from the person or persons that caused 
or that is responsible for the damage, the owner or driver of the vehicle or the 
thing that caused the damage, or all of them jointly. 
 
(3) Where damage is caused as aforesaid the appropriate authority or any 
person acting under its authority shall seize the motor vehicle or thing involved 
in the damage, or cause it to be seized and remove same to the nearest Federal 
Road Safety Commission Office or Police Station or to any premises under the 
control of the appropriate authority and may for such purpose use such force as 
may be reasonably necessary for the seizure or the removal of the vehicle. 
 
(4) The cost of making good the damage shall be assessed and certified in 
writing by the appropriate authority or any person acting under its authority who 
shall thereafter serve the certificate of such assessment on the person to whom 
sub-regulation (1) of this regulation relates and the certificate shall contain a 
demand notice for the payment of the cost as certified into government treasury. 
 
(5) Any vehicle or vehicles or thing seized pursuant to sub-regulation (2) 
of this regulation shall be detained until the amount of the cost of making good 
the damage as certified under sub-regulation (3) of this regulation has been paid 
in the manner prescribed. 
 
(6) Where after 6 months the driver or the owner of the vehicle fails to pay 
for the cost of repairs of the damaged road, the vehicle shall be auctioned in line 
with section 10 (5) (b) of the Act and the proceeds used to pay the full cost of 
the repairs 
 
 
Damage to 
road and 
road fittings. 
 
PART XXIII—PEDESTRIANS AND  PEDESTRIAN CROSSING 
 
173.—(1)  Where a pedestrian crossing is situated in conjunction with a 
traffic signal, a pedestrian shall not enter such crossing except in accordance 
with the indications of such traffic signal as prescribed in these Regulations. 
 
(2) In circumstances not referred to in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, 
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping to 
 
 
 
Compliance 
with traffic 
signals at 
pedestrians 
crossings. 
B 1600 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Driving 
under the 
influence of 
intoxicating 
liquor. 
yield to a pedestrian crossing the road within a pedestrian crossing when the 
pedestrian is upon that half of the road upon which the vehicle is travelling, or 
when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the road 
as to be in danger. 
 
(3) No pedestrian shall suddenly enter a pedestrian crossing and walk or 
run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible for the driver 
to yield as contemplated in sub-regulation (2) of this regulation. 
 
(4) Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a pedestrian crossing to permit 
pedestrians to cross the road, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from 
the rear shall not pass such stopped vehicle. 
 
(5) A pedestrian, when crossing a public road by means of a pedestrian 
crossing or in any other manner, shall not linger on such road but shall proceed 
with due dispatch and no person shall loiter on any pedestrian crossing. 
 
(6) A pedestrian may cross a public road only at a pedestrian crossing or 
an intersection or at a distance no further than 91.44 metres from such pedestrian 
crossing or intersection or where a pedestrian overhead bridge is provided for, 
pedestrians must use such overhead bridge for crossing. 
 
(7) Whenever a sidewalk or footpath terminates on the public road, a 
pedestrian shall not walk on such road except for the purpose of crossing from 
one side of such road to the other. 
 
(8) A pedestria n on a public road which has no sidewalk or footpath 
terminating on the road, shall walk as near as is practicable to the edge of the 
road facing oncoming vehicles on such road, except where the presence of 
pedestrians on the road is prohibited by a prescribed road traffic sign. 
 
(9) No pedestrian shall cross a public road without satisfying himself that 
the road is sufficiently free from oncoming traffic to permit him to cross the 
road in safety. 
 
(10) No pedestrian on a public road shall conduct himself in such a manner 
as to or as is likely to constitute a source of danger to himself or to other road 
users on such road. 
 
(11) Any person who acts in contravention of this regulation shall be liable 
on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 3 months imprisonment or 
to both. 
 
PART XXIV—DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUGS 
 
174.—(1) No person shall drive a vehicle or occupy the driver’s seat of 
any vehicle on a public road while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a 
drug having a narcotic effect while the engine is running. 
 
(2) Any person who acts in contravention of sub-regulation (1) of this 
regulation, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of 
N5,000:00 or a term of 1 year imprisonment or to both. 
B 1601 
 
 
175.—(1) The prescribed limit of alcohol permitted shall be— 
(a) 0.5 grammes in 100 millilitres of alcohol ; or 
(b) 80 milligrams in 100 millilitres of urine or blood test 
 
which shall be determined by use of a breath analyzer to be conducted by a 
member of the Corps or in case of urine or blood test by a medical officer who 
shall make a report on the results of the test and which results shall be endorsed 
on the registration book of the vehicle. 
 
(2) The breath analyzer shall be certified and calibrated once in 12 calendar 
months by the Standard Organisation of Nigeria to ensure that it is in good 
working condition. 
 
176. Where a person without reasonable excuse refuses to subject himself 
to the tests as provided under this regulation, he commits an offence and liable on 
conviction to a fine of N5,000:00 or to a term of 6 months imprisonment or to 
both. 
Prescribed 
alcohol 
limit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Penalty for 
refusal to be 
subjected to 
tests.  
 
PART  XXV—REMOVAL  OF VEHICLES 
 
177.—(1) The appropriat e authorit y or any person authorise d by the 
Commission shall where a vehicle is parked in contravention of these Regulations 
paste on the vehicle a parking ticket indicating— 
 
(a) that the vehicle would be removed by it within 24 hours if not removed 
by the owner ; and 
(b) the fine to be paid in the parking ticket. 
 
(2) The failure to issue a ticket shall not affect the right of the appropriate 
authority or any person authorised by the Commission to remove such vehicle. 
 
(3) The appropriate authority or any person authorised by the Commission 
may notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, cause 
the vehicle to be removed immediately where the vehicle is parked in a position 
or condition as to cause obstruction or constitute danger to other road users. 
 
(4) The appropriate authority or any person authorised by the Commission 
may use such force as may be reasonably necessary, for the purpose of removing 
the vehicle from the public road or gaining access to any part of the vehicle, in 
order to facilitate the removal of the vehicle. 
 
178. Where a vehicle is removed pursuant to these Regulations, the owner 
or driver of the vehicle shall be liable to a fine of N200:00 for every day or part 
thereof for which the vehicle is in the custody of the appropriate authority in 
addition to any other prescribed penalty under these Regulations or the Act for 
wrongful parking. 
 
179.—(1)  The Commission or any other appropriate authority shall— 
 
(a) provide and maintain removed vehicle parks where vehicles removed 
pursuant to these Regulations are parked ; 
 
 
Removal of 
vehicles 
from public 
roads. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Custody fees 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provisions 
relating to 
removed 
vehicles 
park. 
B 1602 
 
 
(b) provide suitable facilities (including equipment and manpower) for the 
removal of vehicles in pursuance to these Regulations ; 
(c) ensure the safety and security of removed vehicles in their custody ; 
(d) provide and maintain a record containing particulars of each removed 
vehicle and its content specifying— 
 
(i)  date of removal of the vehicle ; and 
(ii) the park where it is being kept, 
irrespective of whether an application for recovery of the vehicle has been made. 
(2) The Commission or appropriate authority shall not be under any duty 
to protec t vehicle s remove d pursuan t to these Regulation s from damage 
occasioned by sun, rain, wind, other physical conditions, any other natural cause 
or circumstances beyond the control of the Commission or appropriate authority. 
 
Procedure 
for 
reclaiming 
removed 
vehicles. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certificate of 
release of 
removed 
vehicle. 
 
 
 
Failure to 
reclaim 
vehicle. 
180.—(1) The owner or driver of a removed vehicle who wants to recover 
the said vehicle shall furnish the officer in charge of the park where the vehicle 
is kept with— 
 
(a) satisfactory evidence of his ownership of the removed vehicle ; 
(b) evidence of compliance with the provisions of regulation 171 of these 
regulations on the payment of a fine ; and 
(c) where it is an agent or driver of the owner, proof that he is the authorised 
agent or driver of the owner. 
 
(2) Nothing in these Regulations shall be construed as precluding the officer 
in charge of the removed vehicle park from asking for proof of the identity of 
the person seeking to recover the removed vehicle. 
 
181.—(1) Subject to compliance with regulation 178 of these Regulations, 
the officer in charge of a removed vehicle shall release the vehicle upon payment 
of the towing charges and other penalties that may be imposed. 
 
(2) The certificate shall be as specified in Form MVA 26 as contained in 
Schedule 10 to these Regulations. 
 
182.—(1) Where the driver or owner of the vehicle fails to reclaim such 
vehicle within six months of the date of its detention, the Corps or any appropriate 
authority may apply to the High Court for an order of forfeiture of the vehicle to 
the Corps or any other appropriate authority which may thereafter dispose of 
the vehicle by public auction and deposit the proceeds of the sale in the Government 
treasury. 
 
(2) Where an application in respect of the removed vehicle is made by the 
Corps or any other appropriate authority pursuant to sub-regulation (1) of this 
regulation, the court may order the forfeiture of the vehicle and the content 
therein to the Corps or any appropriate authority which may dispose of same in 
accordance with these Regulations. 
B 1603 
 
 
(3) A person claiming to be entitled to the benefit of a charge or lien on a 
removed vehicle and or its contents may at any time before an order of forfeiture 
is made by the Court apply to the court for an order protecting his interest in the 
vehicle or the contents therein, and the Court may make an order vesting the 
vehicle or its contents on the person and on such terms as it deems fit. 
 
(4) Any unclaimed money recovered at the scene of road traffic crash 
shall be paid into the Government Treasury after a period of three months of 
such recovery and receipt of payment shall be kept by the Commission. 
 
PART  XXVI—SPECIAL  PROVISIONS   RELATING   TO  EXPRESSWAY 
 
183.—(1)  The following dimensions and weights shall be the maximum 
permissible for any vehicles using any expressway : 
 
Length      ..           . .                 . .   18.288 metres 
Width       . .            . .                 . .   2.591 metres 
Height       ..           . .                 . .   3.25 metres 
 
(2) The permissible weight and axle load of any vehicle used on any 
expressway shall conform to the provisions of Schedule 15 to these Regulations. 
 
(3) The appropriate authority may when necessary, permit in writing for 
the carriage by a motor vehicle or trailer of any specified freight or load which 
by reason of the nature of the freight or load is incapable of being so placed on 
the vehicle as to conform to these Regulations 
 
184.—(1)  No person shall be involved in or permit on any Expressway 
except where expressly permitted under these Regulations, the Act or any other 
Law : 
 
(a) the movement of cattle or livestock, other than that carried in a motor 
vehicle or at designated points ; 
(b) the buying or selling of livestock ; or 
(c) the grazing of livestock on or immediately adjacent to any expressway. 
 
185.   The use of tri-cycles, motorcycles under 50cc, invalid carriages, 
hand pushed trucks, bicycle, pedal cycles, perambulators and pedestrians are 
not permitted on any expressway, except on tracks and paths which have been 
designated for such use and shall not cross any expressway except at designated 
locations. 
 
186.  Agricultural machines shall not be driven on any expressway. 
 
 
 
187.—(1)  A person shall not load or permit the loading or off-loading of 
any passenge r or goods except at designate d locatio n or bus-stops on the 
expresswa y. 
 
(2) A person shall not open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available 
to moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Permissible 
dimensions 
and weight 
for vehicles 
on the 
expresswa y. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prohibition 
of animals 
on the 
expresswa y. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prohibition 
of 
motorcycles. 
 
 
 
 
Agricultural 
machines on 
expresswa y. 
 
Loading, off- 
loading or 
stoppage on 
the 
expresswa y. 
B 1604 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excess 
passengers 
and excess 
load. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U-turns on 
expresswa y. 
 
 
 
 
 
Parking on 
expresswa y. 
(3) A driver of a vehicle shall not leave the door open on the side of a motor 
vehicle available to moving traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to 
load or unload passengers. 
 
(4) A passenger shall not enter or alight from any vehicle on a road unless 
the vehicle is stationary. 
 
188.—(1) Any person who boards a vehicle in excess of the allowable or 
permitted sitting capacity of that vehicle shall be made to alight from the vehicle 
and the driver shall be liable to pay the prescribed fine for overloading under 
these Regulations. 
 
(2) A person must not drive or allow a motor vehicle to be driven on a 
highway if the vehicle is carrying a load which is in excess of the manufacturers’ 
specifications (overloaded) for that type of vehicle or it exceeds the gross vehicle 
weight for the vehicle. 
 
(3) Where an authorised person or officer finds that a vehicle is overloaded 
or exceeds the gross vehicle weight for the vehicle, he may— 
 
(i)  direct the driver to remove part of the load so that the vehicle will not 
be overloaded ; 
(ii) direct that the driver drive the vehicle to the nearest place where the 
excess load can be safely taken off the vehicle ; and 
(iii) any person who refuses to obey a direction under sub-regulation (4) 
of this regulation or continues to drive the vehicle in an overloaded condition 
is guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N10,000:00 
or to a term of 1 year imprisonment. 
 
(4) No motor vehicle shall stop on any expressway except in the case of 
an emergency or when signalled to stop by any appropriate authority and no 
repairs or servicing of vehicles shall be carried out on the main carriageway of 
any expressway. 
 
(5) Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this regulation 
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N3,000:00 or a 
term of 6 months imprisonment or both. 
 
189.—(1)  No motor vehicle may enter or leave an expressway, cross the 
central reserve or perform a U-turn except at locations designated for that purpose. 
 
(2) Any person who contravenes the provision of this regulation commits 
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N3,000:00 or a term of 6 
months imprisonment or to both. 
 
190.—(1)  No motor vehicle shall be parked on the central reserve of any 
expressway except in the case of an emergency. 
 
(2) A vehicle may be parked on the hard shoulders of an expressway. 
 
(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this regulation commits 
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 
3 months imprisonment or to both. 
B 1605 
 
 
PART  XXVII—REPORTING  OF  ROAD  CRASHES 
 
191.—(1) Any crash on a public road shall be reported to the nearest 
Police Station and Federal Road Safety Commission office or any appropriate 
authority nearest to the scene of the crash. 
 
(2) The driver or any person involved in such crash shall immediately or as 
soon as practicable report to the nearest Federal Road Safety Corps office or 
Police station for appropriate action. 
 
(3) Any person who fails to comply with sub-regulation (2) of this regulation 
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N20,000:00 or 
to a term of 1 year imprisonment or both. 
192.—(1)  A report of a road traffic crash shall be recorded as follows : 
(a) a minor crash, where minor damage is  caused to the public road and 
the vehicle and there is no injury to any person or persons 
(b) a serious crash, where there is extensive damage to a public road and 
injury to persons on the public road ; and 
(c) a fatal crash, where the death of a person occurs regardless of damage 
to property. 
 
(2) Every member of the public has a duty to notify and invite the appropriate 
authority to take all necessary measurements at the scene of a crash, record, 
analyse, investigate  and make a written report as specified in Form MVA 23 set 
out in Schedule 4 to these Regulations provided that where the information required 
to be written down is detailed, the officer carrying out the investigation may 
attach written details to the Form MVA 23 which shall be duly signed by him and 
notify the appropriate authority to inspect the vehicle(s) involved in the crash. 
 
(3)  The Officer shall after the inspection submit a written report to the 
appropriate authority as in Form MVA 24 of Schedule 4 to these Regulations. 
 
(4) Where death occurs, a duly certified medical officer shall examine the 
body to determine the actual cause of death. 
 
193. Any officer carrying out an investigation in pursuance to regulation 
191 (2) before commencing an investigation on arrival at the scene of the crash 
shall determine the seriousness of the crash and shall— 
 
(a) where there is a person in need of medical attention ensure that the 
person receives immediate medical attention and where necessary be taken 
immediately to a hospital ; 
(b) if there is an injured person, ensure that person receives immediate 
medical attention and where necessary be taken immediately to a hospital ; 
(c) where death occurs, remove the dead body and clear any obstruction 
from the road without prejudice to any material evidence ; and 
(d) place warning signs at a distance of 100 metres before and after the 
crash scene and ensure traffic is controlled adequately. 
 
 
Reporting of 
road crashes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Procedure 
for 
investigating 
and 
recording 
road crashes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duty of 
officers at 
the scene of 
crash. 
B 1606 
 
 
 
 
 
Rules on the 
use of 
motorcycle 
on public 
roads. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rules on use 
of bicycles 
on public 
roads and 
wearing of 
helmet. 
PART  XXVIII—USE  OF  MOTORCYCLE   ON  PUBLIC  ROADS 
 
194.—(1)   Subject to the provisions of regulations 98 and 99 of these 
Regulations, the following general provisions shall apply to motorcycle riders 
and passengers : 
 
(a) the rider of a motorcycle shall not carry any person or object in front 
of him on the motorcycle but, if the motorcycle is fitted with a seat properly 
constructed for that purpose and firmly affixed to the frame, may carry not 
more than one person sitting astride at the rear of the motorcycle ; and where 
a side car is firmly attached to the motorcycle he may carry not more than the 
number of persons for which seating capacity in such side car is provided by 
the manufacturer ; 
(b) where the rider of a motorcycle is the holder of a Learner’s Permit no 
person shall be carried at the rear of the motorcycle unless that person is 
licenced to ride a motorcycle and is being carried for the purpose of giving 
instruction to the learner ; 
(c) no person shall ride a motorcycle without wearing an approved safety 
helmet or carry a passenger who is not wearing an approved safety helmet ; 
(d)  any person in contravention of this provision commits an offence and 
shall be liable to a fine of N2,000:00 or a term of 3 months imprisonment or to both ; 
(e) no person shall ride a motorcycle in a negligent or dangerous manner ; 
(f) where a motorcycle is registered in the commercial category, it shall 
conform with the provisions of these Regulations and shall be painted with the 
approved colour of the State and the Federal Capital Territory respectively ; and 
(g)  a person who, when riding a motorcycle on a public road under the 
influence of alcohol or drugs to such extent as to be incapable of having 
proper control of the motorcycle shall be guilty of an offence and the provisions 
of regulations 174, 175 and 176 shall apply. 
 
(2) Any person who contravenes this regulation where no other penalty is 
prescribed commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of 
N3,000:00 or 3 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
PART  XXIX—USE  OF  BICYCLES  ON  PUBLIC  ROADS 
 
195.—(1) No person shall on any public road : 
 
(a) ride a bicycle not fitted with two efficient brakes and an efficient bell 
or horn or other appliance for giving audible warning of approach ; 
(b) ride a bicycle of which at least 0.228 metres of the lowest part of the 
rear mudguard is not painted white on the outside ; 
(c) fasten an animal to a bicycle so as to obstruct, endanger or annoy any 
person using the public road ; 
(d) leave a bicycle standing unattended without a person to hold the animal 
attached to the bicycle ; 
B 1607 
 
 
(e) whilst riding a bicycle hold onto any other vehicle or bicycle ; 
(f)   ride a bicycle in a negligent or dangerous manner ; 
(g) ride a bicycle without wearing an approved safety helmet or carry a 
passenger who is not wearing an approved helmet ; or 
(h)  any person in contravention of this provision commits an offence and 
shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 3 months 
imprisonment or to both. 
 
(2) A person who rides a bicycle on a public road recklessly or without due 
care and attention, or without reasonable consideration for other road users 
commits an offence and is liable to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 3 months 
imprisonment or to both. 
 
(3) A person who, when riding a bicycle on a public road, is unfit to ride as 
a result of alcohol, drugs and other psychotropic substances to such extent as to 
be incapable of having proper control of the bicycle commits an offence and the 
provisions of regulations 174, 175 and 176 of these Regulations shall apply. 
 
PART  XXX—PROVISIONS   RELATING  TO  EXEMPTED  BODIES 
 
196.—(1) Except as herein provided, no fees shall be charged— 
 
(a) for the registration, examination and weighing of a vehicle owned by 
an exempted body ; 
(b) for a driver’s licence issued to a person employed to drive a motor 
vehicle belonging solely to an exempted body ; and 
(c) for change of ownership of a vehicle where the new owner is an 
exempted body. 
 
(2) The provisions of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall apply where 
the licence issued : 
 
(i) did not authorise the person named therein to drive any vehicle other 
than the one belonging to the exempted body and shall be so endorsed by 
the Authority ; and 
(ii) is to be surrendered to the Authority by the exempted body when 
the person named therein is no longer employed to drive the exempted 
body. 
 
197. In this regulation, the expression “exempted body” includes— 
(a) the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria ; 
(b) the Government of any State of the Federation ; 
(c) any Local Government ; and 
(d) any person provided with diplomatic privileges and immunities under 
the Diplomatic Immunities and Privileges Act, Laws of the Federation of 
Nigeria, 2004 and such other persons as may be exempted under the provisions 
of any other written law. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exemption 
from 
payment of 
registration, 
examination 
and weighing 
fees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exempted 
bodies. 
B 1608 
 
 
 
 
 
Establish- 
ment of 
safety unit 
by operators 
of transport 
services. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Categories of 
transport 
service 
operators.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registration 
of 
commercial 
vehicle 
operators.  
PART  XXXI—SPECIAL  PROVISIONS   RELATING   TO  OPERATORS   OF 
TRANSPO RT   SERVICES 
 
198.—(1) All road fleet transport   operators who engage in inter-state 
city road transport services shall establish a Safety Unit and appoint a Safety 
Officer as th e head of the Unit who shall ensure that safety and operational 
standards are maintained as prescribed in these Regulations or the Commission 
from time to time.. 
 
(2) A person or Organisation shall not operate a transport company unless he 
has fulfilled the necessary conditions as prescribed by the appropriate Commission 
authority, and ha s obtained a certificate of compliance of same from the 
appropriate authority which must be placed at the operator’s business headquarters 
and operating terminals. 
 
(3) Any person or organization who contravenes the provision  of this 
regulation shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N 100, 000.00 or a term of 
imprisonment of one year for first offender and be given 3 months to comply . 
Subsequent offender shall in addition to the stipulated penalty  have his 
operation barred. A company shall not be registered as a transport company 
by the Corporat e Affairs Commissio n unless it present s to the Corporat e 
Affairs Commission a certificate of compliance issued by the Commission. 
 
199.—(1) A fleet operator is any person, organisation, company, 
academic instit ution, government department  and agency who engages 
in transport services with at least five vehicles in its fleet  
 
(12)   Road transportFleet operator s shall be graded into three broad 
categories as follows— 
 
(i) operators with at least 100 and above vehicles ; 
(ii) operators with 26 25 to 99 vehicles ;  and 
(iii) operators with less than 5 to 25 vehicles. 
 
(23) There shall be yearly inspections and assessments of fleet operators by 
inspectors and assessors authorised by the Commission to determine the 
eligibility for a permit. 
(4) Any person or organisation intending to operate transport services  
shall first apply to the Commission for a provision al operating permit and same 
shall be issued upon fulfilling the prescribed conditions and requirements. The 
provisional permit shall be valid for a period of nine months after which a 
certificate of compliance shall be issued to the transport operator on compliance 
with prescribed standards and specifications.  
 
(5)  There shall be inspections and assessments o f fleet operators to 
determine the grouping and classes of certification based o n prescribed 
standards and specifications. 
 
(3 6) The Commission shall issue a yearly compliance sticker for every 
vehicle in a fleet which has been inspected and certified and such compliance 
sticker shall be affixed on the vehicle front windscreen. 
 
(4 7) All vehicles certified under this regulation shall be inscribed with 
emergency phone number(s) boldly written at the rear and sides of the vehicles 
for the purpose of emergencies and shall have recovery vehicles and a rescue 
plan for road crashes. 
 
(58) All certified road transport operators shall maintain records of 
Formatted: Justified, Right:  0.13", Line
spacing:  Multiple 1.04 li
Formatted: Indent: First line:  0"
B 1609 
 
drivers, 
vehicles, 
routes plied 
and road 
crashes and 
their causes, 
and submit 
same on 
regular basis 
to the 
Commission. 
 
200.—
(1) A vehicle 
owner shall 
not operate a 
commercial 
vehicle 
without 
being 
registered 
with a 
licenced 
commercial 
transport 
association 
or union. 
 
(2) All 
commercial 
transport 
Associations 
or Unions 
shall be 
licenced by 
the 
Commission 
and shall 
have route 
identification 
marks as 
may be 
prescribed by 
the 
appropriate 
authority 
from time to 
time. 
 
(3) Any 
person or 
association 
or union that 
contravenes 
the 
provisions of 
this 
regulation 
commits an 
offence and 
shall be 
liable on conviction to a fine of     N200,000 or to a term of two years 
imprisonment or both in the case of an individual and dissolution in the case of 
association or union. 
B 1610 
 
 
(4) Every category of commercial vehicle shall have an operating permit 
issued by the Commission which authorises that vehicle to render a specified 
transport service in terms of distance or route of operations. 
 
(5) A person shall not operate a commercial vehicle without obtaining a 
Commercial Vehicle Operating Permit (CVOP) and the permit shall be renewed 
annually after the payment of the prescribed fee and conditions as prescribed by 
the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
201. All licenced commercial transport associations and unions shall organize 
periodic training, seminars and courses for its members and drivers and such 
courses shall include defensive driving, speed limit, use of the road, number of 
passengers, traffic signs, compliance with registration and pedestrian crossing. 
 
202.—(1)  All transport unions or associations shall have approved Code 
of Ethics to ensure discipline of their members and their registered drivers. 
 
(2) All registered commercial operators shall send all their drivers to attend 
at least one refresher course in defensive driving annually. 
 
(3) The Commission shall maintain a data base of all road transport operators 
and shall issue appropriate forms for data collection, certification and registration 
of operators, safety officers and all necessary operational activities as may be 
required from time to time. 
 
(4) Any transport operator or safety officer that fails to comply with the 
provisions of this regulation commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction 
to a fine of N3,000 or to a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
PART  XXXII—USE  AND  OPERATION  OF AMBULANCE   SERVICES 
 
203.—(1)  Any person or Organisation intending to operate Ambulance 
services shall first apply to the Commission for an Ambulance Operating Permit 
as prescribed in form MVA 30 of Schedule 17 to these Regulations and a Permit 
shall be issued upon fulfilling the conditions and requirements for that purpose 
and the payment of the prescribed fee. 
 
(2) Upon the issuance of the operating Permit which shall be renewed 
annually, an ambulance operator shall register its operational offices with the 
Commission indicating all its operational routes. 
 
(3) No person or Organisation shall be registered as an Ambulance Operator 
by the Corporate Affairs Commission unless it presents to the Corporate Affairs 
Commission a Permit issued by the Commission. 
 
(4) Ambulance operators shall implement the safety policies and meet the 
minimum safety standards of vehicles and drivers as approved by the Commission. 
 
204.—(1) All Ambulances shall be painted in the colour approved by the 
appropriate authority and shall have inscribed on it, phone numbers of the person 
or Organisation operating the Ambulance which shall be boldly written at the 
rear and sides of the Ambulance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Continuous 
education of 
commercial 
drivers. 
 
Code of 
ethics for 
transport  
associations 
and unions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Permit for 
the 
operation of 
ambulance 
services. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Colour of 
ambulances. 
B 1611 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Periodic 
examination 
of 
ambulances. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Require- 
ments for 
towing 
vehicles. 
(2) The Commission shall organize training for ambulance drivers and 
operators from time to time on the subject of emergency driving, traffic codes 
and defensive driving. 
 
(3) Operators are to maintain records of Ambulance drivers, ambulance 
vehicles in their fleet and rescue operations and submit same on regular basis to 
the Commission. 
 
(4) Ambulance operators shall respond promptly to emergency calls to 
rescue road crash victims and no ambulance shall carry passengers for hire. 
 
205.—(1) Every ambulance shall be submitted to the appropriate authority 
for examination once every six months. 
 
(2) The Commissio n may enter into partnershi p with any perso n or 
Organisation to operate ambulance services. 
 
(3) All vehicles used as ambulance shall conform to requirements relating 
to its construction, condition, use, accessories and other equipment as prescribed 
under these Regulations or under any law. 
 
PART  XXXIII—OPERATION   OF  TOWING  VEHICLES 
 
206.—(1)  A person shall not drive or operate a vehicle towing another 
vehicle unless he is a licenced driver licenced to drive that particular class of 
vehicle and except— 
 
(a) the length of the draw bar or tow-bar between the two vehicles exceeds 
3.5 metres ; 
(b) the towed vehicle is connected to the towing vehicle in such a manner 
that the towed vehicle cannot be properly controlled by the towing vehicle ; 
and 
(c) the steering gear of the vehicle being towed is controlled by a person 
licenced to drive the class of such vehicle, 
 
(2) The provisions of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall not apply in 
a case where— 
 
(i)        the towed vehicle is hoisted so that the steerable or front wheels 
are clearly off the ground while in motion ; 
(ii) the device connecting the towing vehicle to the towed vehicles is such 
that the towed vehicle can be properly controlled by the towing vehicle, and 
(iii) the towing vehicle is moving at a speed of less than 30 km/h. 
 
(3) No motor vehicle other than a towing vehicle shall be used as a towing 
vehicle, unless a draw bar or tow-bar is placed between the two vehicles and 
does not exceed 3.5 metres. 
 
(4) The draw bar or tow bar to be used by towing vehicles be securely 
attached to a hook-up device commonly referred to as under-reach or wheel-lift 
and Sling-type or bar-type hook-ups shall not be allowed. 
B 1612 
 
 
(5) A towing vehicle specified under this regulation shall— 
(i) have rear brake signals and tail lights ; 
(ii) be free of loose parts, unsecured boards, hoods, broken glass, and 
leaking fluids ; and 
(iii) be capable to raise wheels of steering axles. 
 
207.—(1) Any person who intends to operate commercial towing service 
shall apply to the appropriate authority who shall prescribe conditions and 
requirements and issue a Towing Operating Licence for the operation of such 
service upon the payment of the prescribed fees. 
 
(2) The Towing Operating Licence shall be renewed annually upon fulfilling 
the prescribed conditions and payment of the prescribed fees. 
 
PART  XXXIV—MISCELLANEOUS  MOTOR  TRAFFIC  REGULATIONS 
 
208. Any person who wishes to designate his premises as a motor park 
shall apply to the appropriate authority which shall approve stating out guidelines 
for the operation of the motor park and issue a certificate upon payment of the 
prescribed fees. 
 
209.—(1)  A person shall not drive, ride, propel or park any vehicle or 
propel, ride or leave any animal or display trade wares on any footway or pavement 
provided for the use of pedestrians. 
 
(2) In this regulation “vehicle” includes carriages, wagon, carts, bicycles, 
handcarts, sledges, barrows and all other machines for the carriage of goods or 
persons.  
 
210. Where under these Regulation s it is require d that a vehicl e or 
motorcycle shall have painted or marked thereon any words, letters, figures or 
symbols or to be repainted or otherwise marked from time to time, the owner of 
the vehicle or motorcycle shall paint or mark the said words, letters, figures or 
symbols legibly and clearly distinguishable at all time. 
 
211.—(1) An appropriate authority may inspect any motor vehicle or trailer 
with a view to ascertaining whether the provisions of the Act, these Regulations, 
permit or notice issued hereunder are being complied with. 
 
(2) Where an appropriate authority is satisfied that there is non-compliance 
with any of the provisions of these Regulations, the appropriate authority may 
prohibit the further use of the vehicle or trailer until there is compliance, and any 
person using or permitting the use of a vehicle or trailer in contravention of any 
order prohibiting its use pursuant to the Act, Regulations, permit or notice issued 
hereunder commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000 in 
addition to any other penalty which may be imposed. 
 
(3) An appropriate authority may stop any vehicle to ascertain whether the 
vehicle or any trailer drawn thereby is used to contravene the provisions of the 
Act or any of these Regulations and may detain the vehicle or trailer until the 
issue leading to the detention has been resolved. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operation of 
commercial 
towing 
vehicles. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Designation 
of premises 
as motor 
parks. 
 
Driving or 
parking on 
footways or 
pavement.  
 
 
 
 
Marks on 
vehicles to 
be clear and 
legible at all 
times. 
 
 
Power to 
inspect 
vehicles. 
B 1613 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Requirement 
to weigh or 
reweigh 
vehicles. 
 
Construction 
signs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exemption 
of vehicles 
and plants 
used in 
construction 
and fire 
engine or 
pumps.  
 
Exemption 
in respect of 
registered 
Government 
vehicles. 
 
 
 
 
Publi c Road 
Codes. 
(4) Where it appears to an appropriate authority that a vehicle driven on a 
public road is not in compliance with provisions of these Regulations or the Act, 
the appropriate authority may demand the owner or driver of the vehicle to 
produce the vehicle or any trailer drawn thereby at a stipulated time and place 
for inspection to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act or these Regulations 
are being complied with. Failure to produce the vehicle is an offence and any 
person found guilty shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or 3 
months imprisonment or to both. 
 
212. Any appropriate authority may require a vehicle to be weighed or re- 
weighed as may be expedient. 
 
 
213.—(1)  Any person, company, Organisation or enterprise involved in 
the construction or maintenance of a public road shall provide adequate warning 
signs of the ongoing construction or maintenance at the construction areas day 
and night. 
 
(2) Failure to comply with this provision is an offence and any person, 
company, organisation or enterprise in contravention shall be liable on conviction 
to a fine of N50,000:00 or to a term of 18 months imprisonment or to both. 
 
PART  XXXV—GENERAL  PROVISIONS 
 
214.—(1) These Regulations in so far as they relate to the licensing of a 
motor vehicle or trailer shall not apply to motor vehicles exclusively designed 
for use, or   plants used for the maintenance of roads or bridges, or to fire 
engines or trailer pumps. 
 
(2) The provisions of regulation 163 of these Regulations shall not apply to 
a motor vehicle referred to in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation during the 
time it may be engaged on the construction or maintenance of roads or bridges. 
 
215.—(1) The provisions of these Regulations shall not apply to a registered 
Government vehicle. 
 
(2) In these Regulations, “registered government vehicle” means any motor 
vehicl e or traile r owned by the Federa l Governmen t and registere d as a 
Government vehicle under the provisions of the Road Traffic Registration of 
Government Vehicles Regulations, 1958. 
 
216.—(1)  The Commission may cause the Public Road Code and every 
revised edition thereof to be printed and copies thereof to be sold to the public at 
such price as may be determined from time to time. 
 
(2) The Commission may, from time to time, revise the Public Road Code 
by revoking, varying, amending or adding to the provisions thereof. 
 
(3) Failure on the part of any person to observe any provision of the Public 
Road Code, shall not of itself render the person liable to criminal proceedings of 
any kind, but any such failure may be used as evidence, in any proceedings (civil 
B 1614 
 
 
or criminal) , includin g proceeding s for an offence under the Act or these 
Regulations. 
 
(4) In these Regulations “the Public Road Code” means the code comprising 
directions for the guidance of persons using roads as may be revised from time 
to time by the Commission. 
 
217.—(1) The Commission shall regulate the placement of road furniture 
and determine the shape, size and colour of road furniture and traffic signs. 
 
(2) A person shall not carry on the business of road furniture and sign 
placement or be eligible for any road furniture and sign placement contract in 
Nigerian without first being certified by the Commission to carry out such 
business. 
 
(3) In the case of a State, the Director, Civil Engineering in conjunction 
with any other appropriate authority may post or display road signs and effect 
markings on roads and pavements. 
 
218. Any person who fails to comply with or acts in contravention of any 
condition attached to any licence or permit under these Regulations commits an 
offence and is liable on conviction as provided in these Regulations. 
 
 
 
 
219. Any person who commits a breach of or fails to comply with any of 
the provisions of these Regulations commits an offence and, where no special 
penalty is provided in the Act or in these Regulations, is liable on conviction in 
respect of each offence to a fine of N2,000:00 or to imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding 3 months or to both. 
 
 
220. Any uniform member of the Corps and non-uniform Special Marshal 
shall have power to issue a notice of offence or issue ticket electronically or 
manually to a person who he reasonably believes has committed an offence 
specified in these Regulations, and the offender shall pay the prescribed penalty 
to an appointed bank and present the original teller to the Commission or be 
charged to court as specifie d in Form MVA 27 of Schedul e 11 to these 
Regulations. . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Road 
furniture, 
traffic signs, 
signals, 
notices, 
certification. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Offences in 
relation to 
licences and 
permits 
under these 
Regulations. 
 
Omnibus 
penalty for 
failure to 
comply with 
provisions  
of these 
Regulations. 
 
Power to 
issue notice 
of offence or 
ticket. 
221.—(1)   The Commission in conjunction with any other appropriate 
authority may prescribe additional precautionary measures to reduce the rate of 
crashes by : 
 
(a) prescribing additional constructional and mechanical requirements for 
commercial vehicles ; 
(b) prohibiting or restricting the driving of motor vehicles of any class or 
description on any specified public road or part of a public road and empowering 
any specified officer or other authority to impose such prohibition or restrictions ; 
Power to 
prescribe 
additional 
precautionary 
measures. 
B 1615 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amendment 
of 
Regulations. 
 
Prohibition 
of use of 
certain roads. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Guidelines 
for states. 
 
 
Conflict with 
other 
Regulations. 
 
 
 
Fleeing or 
attempting to 
flee from a 
corps member. 
(c) with respect to the speed at which motor vehicles of any class or 
description may be driven either generally or on any specified public road or 
within any defined area or place ; 
(d) prescribing precautions to be taken in the interest of the safety and 
convenience of the public travelling in motor vehicles or otherwise using public 
road, and providing for the periodical inspection of motor vehicles ; and 
(e) prescribing anything which shall ensure the effective enforcement of 
these Regulations and all other matters pertaining to or likely to enhance safety 
on the public road. 
 
222. The Commissio n may, from time to time, amend or revoke the 
provisions of these Regulations by notice in the Gazette. 
 
 
223.—(1)  Where the appropriate authority is of the opinion that it might 
be unsafe to permit a particular class or type of vehicle to be used on any public 
road— 
 
(a) it may by notice prohibit the class or type of vehicle from using the 
road ; and 
(b) shall cause suitable warning signs to be erected on the approaches to 
the road. 
 
(2) Where the appropriate authority by notice or other warning signs, 
prohibit s any class of vehicles from the use of any public road under this 
regulation, it shall be an offence for that class of vehicle to ply the prohibited 
road and the driver of the vehicle shall be liable under these Regulations. 
 
(3) Except in the case of an emergency, no truck, trailer, tanker or motor 
vehicle shall use any road when the gross weight designation on the vehicle 
exceeds the posted weight limit of the road. 
 
224. The Commission shall provide standard guidelines on road traffic 
management for all the states of the federation including the Federal Capital 
Territory, Abuja. 
 
225. Where any of the provisions of any other Road Traffic Regulations 
existing in any State of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory, is 
inconsistent with the provisions of these Regulations, the provisions of these 
Regulations shall to the extent of the inconsistency prevail and the provisions of 
that other Regulations shall be null and void. 
 
226.—(1)   It shall be an offence for any driver of a motor vehicle to 
wilfully fail or refuse to bring his vehicle to a stop or otherwise flee or attempt to 
flee from a Federal Road Safety Corps member in uniform, when given visual or 
audio signal to bring the vehicle to a stop. 
 
(2) Under this regulation ‘signal’ may be by hand, voice, emergency lights 
or siren. 
B 1616 
 
 
227. A person shall not drive or operate any vehicle over, on, or across any 
pavement or road undergoing construction, or circumvent a barrier or sign placed 
by any lawful authority prohibiting the use of any vehicle over or on such pavement 
or road being constructed. 
 
228. No person shall drive or cause to be driven, a vehicle on any public 
road for any car race, drag race, acceleration contest, test of physical endurance, 
exhibition of speed, speed competition or for the purpose of establishing a speed 
record, except in an area designate d or authorise d for that purpose by the 
Commission. 
 
229.—(1) The owner of any motor vehicle or trailer shall on demand by 
the appropriate authority, give information— 
 
(a) which is reasonably expected to be within his knowledge as to the 
name, address, description and whereabouts of any person who commits or 
is alleged to have committed any offence in respect of the motor vehicle or 
trailer ; and 
(b) regarding any occupant of the motor vehicle or trailer at the time of the 
commission of the offence or alleged offence. 
 
(2) Where the owner wilfully refuses or neglects to give the information, 
he commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or 
to a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both. 
230.—(1) The National Road Traffic Regulations, 2004 is hereby revoked. 
(2) The revocation of the Regulations specified in sub-regulation (1) of 
this regulation shall not affect anything done or purported to be done under or 
pursuant to that regulation. 
 
 
231. In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires— 
 
“Act” means the Federal Road Safety Commission (Establishment) Act, 
2007 ; 
“abnormal load” is a load which by its nature is indivisible and unavoidably 
exceeds the prescribed dimension of 2.8m ; 
“agricultural and track laying machines” means an industrial or track 
propelled vehicle which is used for the purpose of hauling produce, timber or 
mineral in agricultural land, timber forest or mine and registered as such 
under regulation 8 of these Regulations ; 
“appropriate authority” includes the Commission, Nigerian Police Force, 
Licensing Authorities, Vehicle Inspection Officers, Director, Federal Public 
Roads , Directo r of Engineering , Ministr y of Works of States , Local 
Government Supervisory Councillors of Works, Security Agencies ; 
 
“articulated vehicle” means a motor vehicle with a trailer drawn which is so 
constructed and by partial super imposition attached to the motor vehicle that a 
substantial part of the weight of the trailer is borne by the motor vehicle ; 
Disregarding 
signs on 
roads under 
construction.  
 
Prohibition 
of car and 
speed races. 
 
 
 
 
Information 
in relation to 
road traffic 
offenders. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revocation 
of the 
National 
Road Traffic 
Regulations, 
2004. 
 
Interpreta - 
tion. 
B 1617 
 
 
 
“assistant driver” means a qualified and licenced driver who acts as assistant 
to a driver of a school bus. 
“authority” includes motor licensing authority of the States and Federal 
Capital Territory, Abuja ; 
“central motor registry” means National Data Base established by the 
Commission, including the Motor Registry established by the States of the 
Federation and, Federal Capital Territory for the purpose of these Regulations ; 
“commercial vehicle” includes motorcycle for hire, a hackney carriage, 
stage carriage, a prime mover, recovery vehicle, draw-bar-trailer or articulated 
vehicle, buses, pick-up vans, tricycles and any motor vehicle primarily designed 
for the carriage of goods and fare-paying passengers as well as vehicles for 
carrying people by companies and religious bodies ; 
“Commission” means the Federal Road Safety Commission. 
“competent authority” includes appropriate authority and for the purposes 
of Articles 3 and 6 of the International Convention on the Taxation of Foreign 
Motor Vehicles, the Principal Licensing Officers as defined in these Regulations 
and the Federal Road Safety Commission (Establishment) Act, 2007 ; 
“corps’’ means the Federal Road Safety Corps ; 
“Court’’ includes the Federal High Court or High Court of a State or the Federal 
Capital Territory, magistrate or mobile court having requisite jurisdiction ; 
“escort” means other smaller vehicles or persons conducting the movement 
of the motor vehicle or trailers as provided in regulations 55 and 116 of these 
Regulations ; 
“expressway” means any part of a public road not being a single carriage 
way declared by order to be an expressway by the Federal Ministry of Works 
or State Ministry of Works in the case of a State road ; 
“exhaust emissions” means substances emitted into the atmosphere from 
the tailpipe(s) of a motor vehicle ; 
“excessive noise” means unreasonable sound emitting from the engine or 
any other part of a vehicle which is such as to interfere with normal hearing 
or constitute a nuisance or distraction to other road users ; 
“far-side” means left opposite side ; 
“mechanical workshop” includes any workshop which engages in the repairs 
and maintenance of motor vehicles or motorcycles, auto-electrical, panel beating 
or spray, wheel alignment and balancing workshops ; 
‘mineral’ includes mineral oils and the words ‘mine’ and ‘mining’ shall be 
construed accordingly. 
“motor vehicle mechanic’ includes a person who engages in the repairs 
and maintenance of motor vehicles, auto electrician, panel beater, etc ; 
“motor vehicle dealer” means a person who engages in the sale and 
distribution of motor vehicles ; 
B 1618 
 
 
“motorcycle” includes a motor vehicle designed to travel on two or more 
wheels, where any part of the locomotive power is provided by an internal 
combustion engine and includes a combination of motorcycle and side car ; 
“multi-purpose vehicle” means a vehicle capable of carrying goods, persons 
and livestock ; 
“near side” or “right side” means the side nearest to the shoulder of the road ; 
“overall length” means the overall length of a vehicle exclusive of the 
starting handle, if any ; 
“overall width” means the width measured between paralleled planes 
passing through the extreme projecting points of a vehicle exclusive of any 
driving mirror ; 
“omnibus” means a vehicle capable of carrying a load of not less than 762 
kilograms , constructe d and designe d for the sole purpos e of carrying 
passengers, their hand luggage and registered as such under regulation 3 of 
these Regulations ; 
“overhang” means the distance measured horizontally and parallel to the 
longitudinal axis of the vehicle between two vertical places at right angles to 
such axis the one passin g throug h that point of the vehicl e projecting 
furthermost to the rear and the other passing— 
(a) in the case of a motor vehicle having two axles, one of which is not a 
steering wheel, through the centre of the axle ; 
(b) in the case of a motor vehicle having three axles— 
(i) where the front axle is the only steering axle, through a point 102 
millimetres in the rear of the centre of the axle; a straight line joining the 
centre of the rear and middle axles ; and 
(ii) where the rear axle is the only steering axle, through the centre 
point of the middle axles ; 
(c) in the case of a motor vehicle (whether having two or three axles) 
where all the axles are steering axles, and in the case of a motor vehicle 
having four or more axles, through a point situated on the longitudinal axis of 
the vehicle and such that a line drawn from it at right angle to that axis will 
pass through the centre of the minimum turning circle of the vehicle ; 
“pedestrian” means any person using a road on foot for the purpose of 
passage, but does not include a person propelling a vehicle ; 
“pedestrian crossing” means a section of the public road clearly defined by 
conspicuou s marking and designate d to be a pedestria n crossing by the 
appropriate authority ; 
“ principal licensing officer” means an officer appointed as such in the 
States, the Federal Capital Territory Abuja as well as the Corps Marshall and 
Chief Executive of the Federal Road Safety Corps ; 
B 1619 
 
 
 
“public road” means any road, street or thoroughfare or any other place 
(whether a thoroughfare or not) which is commonly used by the public or 
any section thereof or to which the public or any section thereof has a right 
of access, and includes— 
(a) the side of any such road, street or thoroughfare ; 
(b) any bridge , ferry or drift traverse d by any such road, street, 
thoroughfare ; and 
(c) any other work or object forming part of or connected with or 
belonging to such road, street or thoroughfare. 
“railway level crossing” means a place where a public or private road 
crosses a railway on the level of the railway ; 
“road users” means a driver of vehicle of every description, pedestrians 
and animals using a road ; 
“vehicle” means any motor car, buses, lorries, trucks, trailers, wagon, 
carriage, cart, bicycles, barrows, sledges   or other conveyance (except a 
baby carriag e or perambulator ) which is used for the transportatio n of 
passengers, animals, goods or other loads ; 
“vehicle inspection officer” includes the Director, Road Traffic Services 
in the States and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja and any officer appointed 
to assist him in the discharge of his functions ; 
“road marshal” includes the Corps Marshal, Chief Executive of the Corps, 
officers and men of the Corps ; 
“registration book” means the registration book issued under regulation 10 
of these Regulations ; 
“Removed vehicle” means a vehicle removed pursuant to regulation 177 of 
these Regulations ; 
“Removed Vehicle Park” means places where vehicles removed are kept 
pursuant to regulation 177 of these Regulations ; 
“School bus” means a motor vehicle that takes students or pupils to and 
from school or on school-related trips ; 
“School Bus driver” means a qualified and licenced driver who acts as a 
driver of a school bus ; 
“School bus operator” means an entrepreneur who acquires an approved 
school bus type and engages in the business of transporting students or pupils 
to and from school ; 
“spare parts dealer” means person who engages in the sale and distribution 
of motor vehicle spare parts ; 
“state” means any State of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Federal 
Capital Territory 
B 1620 
 
 
“superload” means load which by its nature is indivisible and can cause 
damage to the road structure or road furniture as provided in regulation 217 
of these Regulations ; 
“taxi” means any motor vehicle designed or constructed to carry not more 
than seven persons, used or intended to be used for carrying passengers for 
hire or reward under a contract expressed or implied for the use of the vehicle 
as  a whole at or for a fixed or agreed rate or sum ; 
“tractor” means a vehicle which is constructed and used on a public road solely 
for haulage and not for the purpose of carrying or having super-imposed upon it 
any load except such as may be necessary for the propulsion of equipment ; 
“trade licence” means licence issued to a dealer who engages in sales or 
distributio n of vehicles spare parts and also includes licences issued to 
mechanical workshops ; 
“traffic sign” means a sign for regulating the movement of traffic which 
under these Regulations are erected, placed or marked on or near a road ; 
“traffic signal” means a traffic sign which, for the purpose of regulating 
the movement of traffic, gives varying signals from time to time ; 
“trailer” means a vehicle drawn by any motor vehicle but does not include 
a side-car attached to a motorcycle or plant and machinery used for the 
construction or maintenance of roads and bridges ; 
“Vehicle” includes anything attached to the vehicles and contents ; 
“vehicle” in Parts II and III of these Regulations include all categories 
detailed in regulation 8 of these Regulations ; and 
“width” in relation to a tyre means the maximum thickness of the tyre 
from one side of the tyre to the other, measured parallel to the axle as specified 
on the tyre by the manufacturer ; 
 
232. These Regulation s may be cited as the Nationa l Road Traffic  
Regulations, 2012. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Citation.  
B 1621 
 
 
B 1622 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FEDERAL ROAD SAFETY COMMISSION 
(ESTABLISHMENT) ACT, 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NATIONAL ROAD 
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS, 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES 
B 1623 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE S 
SCHEDULE 1                        ( Regulation 2 (1) ) 
FORM MVA 1 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA NATIONAL 
MOTOR VEHICLE REGISTRATION 
APPLICATION FORM 
(Forms should be filled in capital letter) 
Applicant ’s 
Passport 
Photograph  
 
(i)      Registration Centre …...…..……………………………………………………… 
Name of State/Establishment ……………………....………………...…………. 
Licensing Area/Ministry Department ……………………………….....………. 
(ii)      Vehicle Details………………………..…………………………………………… 
Make………………………………………Model……………………………… 
Type………………………………………………………………………………. 
Saloon/Pick -Up Wagon/Bus/ Tanker/ Tricycle/Moto rcycle/ Truck/et c (Specif y pls) 
Colour..………………………………………………..................……………….... 
Chassis No …………………………… Engine no. ……………............……… 
Engine Capacity ………………………………….....................................………. 
State Purpose …………………………………………...………………………… 
Private/Commercial/Government /(Para) Military  
CONDITION OF VEHICLE 
Date of Last Vehicle Inspection …...……………………………………....…… 
Road Worthiness Certification ……………………………………......………. 
TestingAuthority ………………………………………………………………. 
Previous Registration no (if any) ……………………………......……………. 
Name of LicensingAuthority ………………………………………………….. 
(iii)      OWNER’S INFORMATION 
Name ..............................…………………………………………………………... 
State Status ……………………....……………………………………………….. 
Agency/Ministry/Company/Navy/Police/Society/Private/etc  
Address ….................……………………………………………………………... 
Town …………………Tel. No. if any ………….....… Mobile No. ….........… 
(iv)      Special Vehicle Identification Number …….......………………………………. 
(v)      Declaration …................…………………………………………………………... 
I hereby Confirm that the Information provided above is true. I am aware 
that I can be held responsible for any misrepresentation 
Name of Applicant …………………………….. Signature…………………. 
Address ofApplicant ……….....……………………………………………… 
Date of application…………………………………………………………….. 
 
For official use only (as applicable) 
A.      Vehicle Identification Number Allocated …................………………………… 
B.      Number Plate Fees……………………………………….……………………….. 
C.      Receipt Number…………………………………........….…………….………… 
Authorising officer …………………………Code No ………………………... 
Signature ………………………………....... Date ………….........…………… 
B 1624 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1                          ( Regulation 5 (4) ) 
FORM MVA2 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA NATIONAL 
UNIFORM LICENSING SCHEME APPLICATION 
FOR OUT OF SERIES AND FANCY NUMBER 
PLATES 
(Forms should be filled in capital letter) 
 
Applicant ’s 
Passport 
Photograph  
 
A.    Name of Owner…………………..................…………….................................... 
Address………………………………………………….....……………………... 
Tel No ……………………… Mobile No …………….………………………… 
Fax…………………………..e-mail….…………………………………………… 
Engine Number……………….......………………………………………………. 
Chassis Number…………………….Colour……………………………………. 
Vehicle Make …………………………………Type (Saloon, Jeep, etc) 
Previous Vehicle Number (If Any) …………...………………………………… 
Vehicle Identification Mark Proposed ……………………………………........ 
 
B.    Declaration 
 
I declare that the information provided in this application is true and binding 
and that MVA Form 01 has been completed in respect of this request. 
 
...............................................................                ............................................................. 
Name of Applicant                                           Signature & Date 
 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
 
C.    To : Deputy Director (NULS) 
 
This request is recommended for production, please. 
 
Fee Paid N ………..........................................................................………………… 
Amount in Words………….............................………………………..……………. 
Receipt Number ………..…….................................................................................... 
 
.................................................................                ............................................................ 
Name of State Licensing Officer                           Signature/Stamp & Date 
 
D.  Deputy Director (NULS)’ Remarks (Approved/Not 
Approved)…………. Reasons 
…………………………………...........................………………………… 
……………….........…………………………………………………………………………… 
 
………………………………………         …………………………………………….. 
Name of Deputy Director (ULS)                      Signature/Stamp & Date 
B 1625 
 
 
 
 
 
Complet e Form in duplicate  
SCHEDULE 1                   (Regulations 4 and 7) 
 
 
FORM MVA 3 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA MOTOR 
VEHICLE CHANGE OF CATEGORY/ RE - 
REGISTRATION APPLICATION FORM 
(Forms should be filled in capital letter) 
Applicant ’s 
Passport 
Photograph  
 
Licencing Office ……………………………… State ………………………………….... 
Applicant’s Name……………………………..…………………………………………… 
(Surname )                (Othe r Names)  
Address ……………………………................…………………………………………….. 
…………………………………………….........................………………………………….. 
Tel No ……………………… Mobile No …………………..…………....……………….. 
(Licensing Office must be informed of Change in Address) 
 
VEHICLE INFORMATION 
Registration No ................................................................................................................... 
Engine No ............................................................................................................................ 
Chassis No 
........................................................................................................................... Vehicle 
Make : ……………………………………… Type …………………………….... Proof of 
ownership No…………………………………………………………………… 
Reasons for Re-registration ……………………………………………………………... 
 
REGISTRATION  CATEGORY 
 
(i)    Private to Commercial 
(ii)    Commercial to Private 
(iii)    Private to Private 
(iv)    Fancy to Standard 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Tick the appropriate column) 
 
Sign ………………………………………… Date …………………………... 
 
………………………………………                 ……........……………………… 
Applicant’s Signature                                              Date 
 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
FOR  ALL VEHICLES 
Certificate of Road Worthiness No ….......................................……………………….... 
Date of Issue ………………………………………..…………............................……..... 
Weight of LoadAuthorised ……….……………………………………………………... 
Gross Weight 
....................................................................................................................... 
 
……………………………….…                     …………………………………… 
Name of Licensing Officer                                     Signature/Date  
B 1625  
 
SCHEDULE 1                         (Regulation 10) 
 
 
 
 
FORM MVA 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
VEHICLE REGISTRATION BOOK 
Registration Number 
B 1626 
 
 
 
INSTRUCTION 
 
1. This book is a permanent record of Motor Vehicle and must be carried 
on the vehicle. 
 
2. This book will be issued when an application on the prescribed forms is 
submitted for initial registration and licensing. 
 
3. Vehicle Licences will be issued for a period of 12 months with effect 
from the 1st day of the month of issue or the month following the expiry date of 
a current licence. 
 
4. A motor vehicle should be re-licenced before the expiry date. Licensces 
may be renewed by any other motor licensing authority in Nigeria, to whom this 
book must be produced with a current certificate of insurance. The payment of 
the fees will be recorded by the Motor Licensing Authority in this book. 
 
5. A vehicle will be registered on one of the following categories : 
(i) Motorcycle, private or commercial ; 
(ii) Motorcycle with three wheels or side car ; 
 
(iii) Private motor vehicle ; 
(iv) Trailer ; 
(v) Taxi (not more than 7 persons including the driver) ; 
 
(vi) Private hire car driven by the hirer or the owner’s driver; commercial 
vehicle (goods only but including person who are servants of the owner 
whist employed on the vehicle) ; 
(vii) Commercial vehicle (goods only but including persons who are servant 
of owner whist employed on the vehicle) ; 
(viii) Stage carriage for not less than eight and more than fifteen persons 
including the driver ; 
(ix) Stage carriage for over fifteen persons including the driver ; 
(x) Omnibus ; 
(xi) Private omnibus used for the free conveyance of employees ; 
(xii) Agricultural machine ; 
(xiii) Tractor ; 
 
(xiv) Vehicle exclusively designed for use, or plant or machinery used for 
the construction or maintenance of roads or bridges ; 
(xv) Fire engine or trailer pump. 
B 1627 
6. A combined licence will be issued when a vehicle is registered as a 
 
 
commercial and taxi/carriage for 8-15 persons/stage carriage for over 15 persons/ 
omnibus. 
 
7. When the vehicle owner wishes to change a registered category, an 
application should be submitted, on the prescribed form with the prescribed fees 
for the new category, together with the existing licence and this book, to any 
Licensing Authority in Nigeria who will then record the change and forward the 
prescribed form to the registration Authority with whom the vehicle was originally 
registered. 
 
8. A refund will be made for any un-expired complete months of existing 
licence on application, and on surrender of the un-expired licence to the Motor 
Vehicle Licensing Authority which issued the un-expired licence. 
 
9. The certificate of road worthiness for all vehicles is to be carried in this 
book. 
 
10. Subject to the warning on the inside front cover of this book, whenever 
there is a change of ownership THIS  BOOK  MUST  BE TRANSFERRE D TO  THE  OWNER 
of the vehicle who must submit the book to any Registration Authority together 
with ; 
 
(a) An application on the prescribed form ; 
 
(b) A letter from the previous owner authorizing the change ; 
 
(c) A stamped receipt for the purchase price or a letter explaining how the 
transfer of ownership ; and 
(d) The prescribed fee ; 
 
The Motor Licensing Authority to whom this book is submitted will record the 
details of the new owner in the appropriate part of this book. 
 
11. Whenever there is any change in the construction of a vehicle exceeding 
10 tones gross weight or any construction which affects the particulars on 
pages 3 and 4 of this book or the class (e.g. private to hackney, goods to private 
etc.) or if not already so licenced, the desire to draw a trailer, an application on 
the prescribed form must be submitted with this book to any Licensing Authority 
in Nigeria who will record the details of such a change or changes in this book 
and issue the vehicle with a new permit where applicable. If the alteration made 
increases the amount of licence fee payable the amount of additional fee must be 
paid at the time of application. 
 
12. Conditions for the issue of permit for vehicles exceeding 10 tones 
gross weight to ply restricted roads— 
B 1628 
 
 
 
(i) A valid vehicle licence must be held for the vehicle ; 
 
(ii) A list of restricted truck roads A & B for the time being in force as 
supplied by Licensing Authority must be strictly adhered to ; 
(iii) This permit will be cancelled if the construction of vehicle exceeding 
10 tones gross weight is altered ; 
 
(iv) This permit will be subject to such special restrictions as may be 
issued on the use of roads in the wet season. 
 
13. The various forms mentioned in this book may be obtained from the 
Motor Licensing Authority to whom an application for a particular transaction is 
to be forwarded. 
 
14. The loss of this book should be reported immediately by submitting an 
application for replacement on the prescribed form to any Motor Licensing 
Authority. 
 
15. When the vehicle is permanently taken off the road, this book must be 
surrendered to any Motor Licensing Authority in Nigeria for transmission to the 
Registration Authority. 
 
Warning : 
 
1. Any person making unauthorise d entries or alteration s or wilfully 
destroying or defacing any entry in this book, will be liable to a fine of up to 
twice the annual licence fee applicable for the vehicle or imprisonment for six 
months or both. 
 
2. The instructions in the book are issued for the guidance of all concerned. 
Failure to comply is an offence under the National Road Traffic Regulations 2012. 
 
3. The person in whose name a vehicle is registered may or may not be the 
legal owner of the vehicle. Prospective purchasers are warned, therefore, that 
this Registration Book is not proof of legal ownership. 
 
Address of Registration Authority with 
Whom this vehicle is registered 
 
………………………………………….. 
……………………………………………. 
…………………………………………… 
 
Date of Registration …………………………………………........…………… 
 
Official Stamp 
B 1629  
 
Particulars of Vehicle                                                        Original 
 
Identification Mark  
Registered Category  
Make  
Type of body  
Model  
Engine No.  
Chassis No.  
Year of Manufacture  
New Weight  
Cubic Capacity  
Commercial Vehicles only  
Weight authorised to carry  
Gross Weight  
No. of persons authorised to  
PARTICULARS OF TRAILER  
Type of Body  
No. of Wheels  
Net Weight  
No. of Previous Vehicle Registration Book  
Give Duty Certificate  
 
 
Number 
 
 
Duty Paid/Exemption 
 
M.L.A. Office Stamp 
and Initials 
 
 
Name and address of importer………………………………………………….. 
 
............................................................................................................  
 
............................................................................................................ 
Registration Authority and date stamped.....................................................  
 
Date …………………………………………20…………………………….. 
B 1630 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL PARTICULARS FOR VEHICLE EXCEEDING 10 TONNES 
 
Model   
Number of Axles   
Number of Wheels   
Distance between centre of front and rear axles   
Distance between centre of tandem axle (if applicable)   
Distance between front and middle axle (if any)   
Distance between centre kingpin and rear axle of prime   
Mover (semi-trailer)   
Length of Load carrying body   
Load carrying body overhang in front of kingpin   
Overhang Front Rear 
Weight on front axle Net Gross 
Weight on middle axle (if any)   
Weight on rear axle(s)   
 Initials 
of M.L.A. 
Office 
Stamp 
B 1631  
 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF REGISTERED OWNER 
 
 
 
 
Initials & 
Date 
Stamp 
Surname………………………………………………………………… 
(In Block Letters) 
Other Names   ……………………….......…………………………. 
Address……………………………………………………………… 
… … … … … … … . … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … 
 
Tel. No.………………......… Mobile No………………………….. 
 
1ST  CHANGE 
 
 
 
 
Initials & 
Date 
Stamp 
Surname………………………………………………………………… 
(In Block Letters) 
Other Names   ……………………….......…………………………. 
Address……………………………………………………………… 
… … … … … … … . … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …… … … … … … … … … … … … … 
 
Tel. No.………………......… Mobile No………………………….. 
 
2ND CHANGE 
 
 
 
 
 
Initials & 
Date 
Stamp 
Surname………………………………………………………………… 
(In Block Letters) 
Other Names   ……………………….......…………………………. 
Address……………………………………………………………… 
… … … … … … … . … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … 
 
Tel. No.………………......… Mobile No………………………….. 
 
3RD CHANGE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initials & 
Date 
Stamp 
Surname………………………………………………………………… 
(In Block Letters) 
Other Names   ……………………….......…………………………. 
Address……………………………………………………………… 
… … … … … … … . … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …  
Tel. No.………………......… Mobile No………………………….. 
B 1632 
 
 
4TH CHANGE 
 
Surname……...………………………………………………… 
(In Block Letters) 
Initials & 
Date 
Stamp 
Other Names   ……………………….......………….....………. 
Address……………………………………………………………… 
… … … … … ………. ………………………………………………………………………… 
 
Tel.No.………….......……...... Mobile No…………………….. 
 
 
5TH CHANGE 
 
Surname………………………………………………………… 
Initials & 
Date 
Stamp 
(In Block Letters) 
Other Names   ……………………….......………….....………. 
Address……………………………………………………………… 
… … … … … ………. ………………………………………………………………………… 
Tel No.………………… Mobile No.…………………………… 
 
 
For Official Use Only 
 
RECORD OF LICENCES ISSUED 
 
S/N Serial Number of 
Licence issued 
Month and 
Year of Expiry 
Amount 
Paid 
Date, Stamp 
and  Initials 
of Issuing Officer 
 
1     
 
2     
3     
4     
5     
 
6     
7     
8     
 
9     
 
10     
 
11     
 
12     
B 1633  
 
For Official Use Only 
 
RECORD OF LICENCES ISSUED 
 
S/N. Serial Number of 
Licence issued 
Month and 
Year of Expiry 
Amount 
Paid 
Date, Stamp 
and Initials 
of Issuing Officer 
13     
14     
15     
16     
17     
18     
19     
20     
 
21     
 
22     
 
23     
 
24     
 
CHANGES IN PARTICULARS OF VEHICLE 
 
 
Details 
 
Initials of M.L.A. 
 
Office Stamp 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
B 1634 
 
 
 
REMARKS 
B 1635 
SCHEDULE 1 (Regulation 12) 
 
 
 
 
FORM MVA 5 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
Applicant’s 
Passport 
Photograph 
 
VEHICLE CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP APPLICATION FORM 
(Form should be filled in capital letters) 
Licensing Office ................................................................................................................. 
Name of Registered Owner ................................................................................................ 
(Surname)                                        (Other Names) 
(Various Agencies, Diplomatic Missions, Government, etc.) ...................................... 
 
Address 
................................................................................................................................ Tel. 
No. ......................................... Mobile No .................................................................. 
NEW OWNER 
 
Name ..................................................................................................................................... 
(Surname)                          (Other Names) 
 
Address 
................................................................................................................................ Tel. 
No. ......................................... Mobile No .................................................................. 
DETAILS OF TRANSACTIONS 
Purchase Price ...................................................................................................................... 
In Words ............................................................................................................................... 
Mode of Payment.................................................................................................................. 
Purchase Date .......................................................................................................................   
Vehicle Registration No ....................................................................................................... 
Proof of Ownership Certificate No ..................................................................................... 
Make :.......................................................... Model ............................................................ 
Colour .................................................................................................................................... 
(Indicate Colour Combination where applicable) 
Type of Use ........................................................................................................................... 
Engine No. 
:............................................................................................................................. Chassi s 
No. :.......................................................................................................................... Engine 
Capacity ................................................................................................................... No. of 
Cylinders .................................................................................................................... 
B 1636 
 
 
 
INTENDED USE OF VEHICLE 
Private .................................................................................................................................... 
Commercial ............................................................................................................................ 
Government Use .................................................................................................................... 
Military/Paramilitary ............................................................................................................. 
Vehicle Registration Book No. ............................................................................................ 
DECLARATION 
(We declare that the informatio n given above to the best of our knowledge is 
complete and correct in all respect) 
Registered Owner's Name .................................................................................................... 
Signature ........................................................... 
Date......................................................... 
 
Right Thumb Print ................................................................................................................. 
New Owner's Name .............................................................................................................. 
Signature ........................................................... 
Date......................................................... Right Thumb 
Print................................................................................................................. 
 
 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
(Information cross checked and ascertained to be true) 
Fee Paid ................................................................... Date 
.................................................. Receip t No. .............................................................. 
Date ................................................. 
Signature ............................................................................................................................... 
Authorizing Officer 
B 1637 
SCHEDULE 1 (Regulatio n 13) 
 
 
FORM MVA 6 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
MOTOR VEHICLE CHANGE OF COLOUR 
APPLICATION  FORM 
 
 
Applicant’s 
Passport 
Photograph 
(This Application can only be treated at the Licensing Office where the 
Vehicl e was originall y registe red) 
Licensing Office…………………………...……………………...………………………... 
Date …………………………………………..……………………………………………... 
Applicant's Name …………………………………...………………………....................... 
(Surname )                           (Other Names) 
Address …………………….………………………………………………………………. 
Telephone No ………………………… Mobile No ……….…………………………….. 
(Licensing Office must be informed of change in address) 
VEHICLE  DETAILS  : 
Vehicle Identification No. : ….......…….………………………………………………… 
Year of Manufacture …………………………………………………………………….. 
Make …………………………………………… Model ………………………………… 
Ty pe…………………………………………………………………………………………………. 
(Bicycles/Saloon/Coupe/ Statio n Wagon/Pick -Up/Truck/Bu s Omnibus/ Tanker/  
Trailer/ Tractor/Other s (please specif y) 
Registered Colour ..…………………………………………………................................ 
(Indicat e Colou r Combinatio n where Applicabl e) 
 
Vehicle Proof of Ownership Certification No .……………………………………. 
(Original Copy of Certificat e to be produced) 
Engine No ……………………………………… Chassis No ……………………….. 
Engine Capacity ……………………… No. of Cylinders ……………........………….. 
Intended use of Vehicle …………………………………………………………………. 
New Colour ……………......……………………………………………………... 
(indicat e colou r combinatio n where applicabl e) 
DECLARATION  : 
 
I declare that the information provided in this application is true and binding on me. 
Signature ……………………………… Date …........................………………………….. 
Right Thumb Print …………………………………………………………… 
 
OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
Fee Paid………………………………… in words………………………………………. 
Receipt No. & Date…………............………................................................................. 
 
.................................................................                        ................................................. 
Motor Licensing Officer                                                          Date 
B 1638 
SCHEDULE 1 (Regulation 14) 
 
 
FORM MVA 7 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA MOTOR 
VEHICLE REPLACEMENT OF ENGINE 
NOTIFICATION FORM 
 
 
Applicant ’s 
Passport 
Photograph  
 
(This Application can only be treated at the Licensing Office where the Vehicle 
was originally registered) 
 
Licensing Office …………………………………..................…………………………….. 
Date ofApplication ……………………………………………………………………….. 
Applicant's Name ……………...................………………………………………………... 
Address …….………………………………………....……………………………............. 
Tel. No.……………………………. Mobile No ……….……………………...........…...... 
(Notify Licensing Officer of any change of Address) 
 
Vehicle Registration No ………………………………………………………………... 
DETAILS OF PREVIOUS ENGINE: 
Year of Manufacture ……………………… Make ...………………………….........……. 
Model ……………………………………… Type ….……………………….....……..…... 
Colour …………………………………… Engine No …………………………………..... 
Chassis No. ……………………………… Engine Capacity ………………………….... 
No. of Cylinders ..……………………… Proof of Ownership No.………………........ 
Intended use of Vehicle …………………………………………………………………. 
 
DETAILS OF NEW ENGINE : 
Purchase Price ……………………… Place of Purchase …………………………. 
Engine No ……………………………… Engine Capacity …………………………….. 
No. of Cylinders……………………… Invoice/Receipt No…………………………. 
DECLARATION : 
 
I,………………………………………………………………………………….. 
hereby declare that the information provided in this Application is true and binding 
on me. 
…………………………………………    ………………………………………………… 
Signature/Dat e                                           Right thumb print 
 
OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
Fee Paid ……………………………………………… Receipt No.…………...........……. 
Date …………………………………………............... 
Name of Licensing Officer/Approving Authority ………… Remarks ……..…………. 
Sign/Date ………………………………………………........................................................ 
B 1639 
SCHEDULE 1 
FORM MVA 8 
(Regulation 22) 
 
Applicant’s 
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
NATIONAL VEHICLE LICENCE 
Passport 
Photograph 
 
23773 9  
ORIGINAL - To Vehicle Owner 
 
Expires                                          Dec. 20… 
 
 
VEHICL E LICENCE  
23773 9  
 
                                                                                  Original - To Vehicle Owner              Dec 20…. 
Lagos  State                                         Privat e  
                                                                                  Expires  
Owner's Name 
 
 
Lagos State 
 
Private 
Address 
___________________________________ 
Tel. No 
___________________________________ 
Mobile No. 
___________________________________ 
Registratio n No. 
Chassis No. 
Engin e No. 
Poc No.  
____________________________________  
____________________________________ 
Registratio n No. 
__________________________________ _ 
Chassis No. 
__________________________________ _ 
Engine No. 
 
__________________________________ _ 
Poc No. 
______________ _                    ______________ 
Vehicle Make                                            Type 
________________ _     _____________ _         
Vehicle Make                                           Type 
 
_____________ _              ____________ _ 
Vehicle Colour                              Licence Fee 
 
______________ _    _______________ _ 
Net Weight  
 
 
Weight of Load Authorise d to Carry 
 
Names of Person s Authorise d to Carry 
____________ _                ____________ _ 
Issuin g Office r                 Authorise d Officer  
 
_ ______________ _ 
Total N 
 
 
Previou s No.                                         Date  
Vehicle Colour                                 Licence Fee 
 
____________________________________ 
Net Weight  
 
____________________________________ 
Weight of Load Authorized to Carry 
____________________________________ 
No. of Persons Authorized to Carry 
 
_____________ _                    _______________ 
Issuing Officer                      Authorized Officer 
 
 
 
Tota l N 
 
 
Previous No.                                            Date 
B 1640 
SCHEDULE 1 (Regulation 41) 
 
 
 
 
FORM MVA 9 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
PROOF OF OWNERSHIP CERTIFICATE 
B 1641 
SCHEDULE 1 (Regulation 30 ) 
 
 
FORM MVA 10 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
GENERAL SPECIAL TRADE LICENCE/ 
RENEWAL OF DEALER'S LICENCE 
APPLICATION FORM 
 
Applicant ’s 
Passport 
Photograph  
 
 
 
1.     Name of Dealer 
(Block Letters) 
 
2.     Address (P. O. Box only must not be given) 
Tel. No..................Mobile No...................... 
 
3.     What Licence Are You Applying For ?  
4.      Duration of Licence Required Annual/Quarterly (delete as 
appropriate) 
5.     Issue Date Expiring Date 
6.     Application for Renewals only 
State Details of Previous Licence 
Licence No. Licence Code 
  
  
 
Date……………………… Signature………………………. 
(Applican t) 
 Fees Paid 
 
7.        To be completed by Motor Licensing Authority for new Trade Licence 
covered by this Application ............................................................ 
 
................................................................................................................... 
 
(Car Dealers, Mechanics, Spare Parts Dealers, 
Driving School Entrepreneurs) 
Licence No(s) Allocated Licence Code(s) Allocated 
  
  
  
Office Stamp  
 
Signature of Licensing Officer 
B 1642  
 
SCHEDULE 1                 (Regulation 32 (7) (a) ) 
FORM MVA 10A FEDERAL REPUBLIC 
OF NIGERIA TRADE LICENCE 
APPLICATION FORM 
(For Spare Parts Dealers) 
 
Applicant ’s 
Passport 
Photograph  
 
Applicant's Name…................……………………………………………………....... 
(Surname)                          (Other Names) 
(Applicable to Firms and Organisations List of partners or members of  the 
company to be attached) 
Address……………………….................…………………………………………………… 
Tel. No..... ………….............……………… …  Mobile No..……………………………... 
Location of Store .............………………………………………...............………………. 
State Brand of Spare Parts you Deal on .......………..................………………………….. 
 
..................................... .............................................. ............................................ 
..................................... .............................................. ............................................ 
..................................... .............................................. ............................................ 
..................................... .............................................. ............................................ 
 
Name of Company ………………………………………………………………………... 
 
Date …………………………...... Reg. No….…………………………………………….. 
(Copy of Certificate attached) 
VAT No.………............……………………………………………………………………. 
Source of Spare Parts within Nigeria …………….......…………………………………... 
Outside Nigeria ………………………………...........……………………………………… 
Qualification or Trade Test Acquired …………………...............………………………… 
Applicant's Signature and Date …………………………………....……………………... 
 
OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
 
 
FeePaid N……………………………..…………………………………………………….. 
Authorizing Officer …………………………………….. Sign ...…….......………………… 
Date ………………………………… Official Stamp ……....……………………………… 
B 1643 
SCHEDULE 1 (Regulation 32 (7) (b)) 
 
 
FORM MVA 10B FEDERAL REPUBLIC 
OF NIGERIA TRADE LICENCE 
APPLICATION FORM 
(For Mechanic Workshop/Registration) 
Applicant ’s 
Passport 
Photograph  
 
Applicant’s Name  .................................…………………………………………………... 
(Surname)                              (Other Names) 
Address  .………………….....……………………...……………………………………… 
Tel. No ………………………………………… Mobile No ……………………………… 
State ………………………………………… LGA……………………………................ 
Business Reg. Name ...…………………………...………………………………………..  
Location of Business Site ………………………………………………………….. 
(Attach Copy of Workshop Plan) 
Tel. No ……………………………… Mobile No ………………………………….……... 
Registration Certificate No …………………………………………………………. 
(Copy attached) 
 
Date of Incorporation……………………………………………………………………....  
 
Names of Directors                                                                             Signatures 
 
1. …………………………..................………………………………………………………  
2. ......................................……………..........……………………………………………….  
3. ...................................…………………….............……………………………………….  
4. ...................................…………………………… .............……………………………….  
5. ………..................................………………………………..........……………………….  
6. …...................................………………………………………….............……………….  
 
Names of Technical Staff                                                               Qualification 
 
1. …………………………........……………………………………………..........…………  
2. .......................................…………………………………………………………..............  
3. ...................................………………… …………………………………………..............  
4. ...................................…………………………………………………………….............  
5.  ……….................................………………………………………………………........... 
Do you engage in Apprenticeshi p Training? Yes/No 
What Type of Equipment/Tools Do You Have? 
……….................................................................................................................................................... 
................................................................................................................................................................ 
................................................................................................................................................................ 
 
What Type of Services Do You Offer? ……..........................................................................  
………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
Applicant’s Signature ……………………  Date …………………………………….. 
B 1644  
 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
Fee Paid N ............................................................................................................................. . 
Authorised Officer .......................................................... . Sign ............................................. 
Date ...................................................... . Official Stamp .......................................................  
 
MARGINAL  NOTE : 
 
Suspension or Revocation: 
 
1.  The Authority may suspend or revoke the registration certificate and licence if fake 
spare parts are discovered in the business premises or are being sold by the owner of the 
licence and the Authority may direct the sealing of the business premises. 
 
2.  The Owner of the suspended or revoked certificate and licence may appeal to any 
magistrate court. 
 
3. Where the Authority discovers substandard or fake spare parts he shall direct the 
removal of such spare parts from circulation. 
 
4. It shall be an offence for any spare parts dealer not to be registered as stipulated 
under these Regulations. 
B 1645  
SCHEDULE 1                  (Regulation 32 (7) (c)) 
FORM MVA 10C 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA MOTOR 
VEHICLE/MOTORCYCLE DEALERSHIP 
REGISTRATION FORM 
 
INSTRUCTIONS : 
(i) The objective of this Vehicle Dealership Census is for statistics and regula- 
tory purposes. 
(ii) This Form is to be completed in triplicates. 
(iii) Where the space provided is inadequate, please attach additional sheet(s) 
(iv)  Completed Forms should be returned to the Sector Commander of the 
Federal Road Safety Corps, of the registering State. 
 
1. Name of Company ............................................................................................................. 
 
2. Address of Company ........................................................................................................ 
 
..................................................................................................................................................... 
 
..................................................................................................................................................... 
Phone/E-mail ............................................................................................................................ 
3. Names and Address of Directors 
 
A ....................................................................................................................................... 
 
Address ...................................................................................................................... 
Tel/Mobile No ............................................................................................................ 
B ........................................................................................................................................ 
Address....................................................................................................................... 
Tel/Mobile No ................................................................................................................ 
C ........................................................................................................................................ 
Address ...................................................................................................................... 
Tel/Mobile No ........................................................................................................... 
D ....................................................................................................................................... 
Address 
...................................................................................................................... 
Tel/Mobile No ........................................................................................................... 
E ........................................................................................................................................ 
 
Address ...................................................................................................................... 
Tel/Mobile No ........................................................................................................... 
4.  Is the Company formally registered with Corporate Affairs Commission? 
Yes                    No 
B 1646  
 
(a) If Yes, State Registration Number ....................................................................... 
(b) Date of Registration ............................................................................................. 
5.      Is The Company a member of any Trade Association?     Yes            No 
 
If Yes, State The Name and Address of the Association ........................................ 
 
.......................................................................................................................................... 
 
.......................................................................................................................................... 
 
6.      Names of the Executive Members of the Association ............................................. 
 
Address 
.......................................................................................................................... 
.......................................................................................................................................... 
.......................................................................................................................................... 
Address 
.......................................................................................................................... 
.......................................................................................................................................... 
.......................................................................................................................................... 
Address 
.......................................................................................................................... 
.......................................................................................................................................... 
.......................................................................................................................................... 
Address 
.......................................................................................................................... 
.......................................................................................................................................... 
.......................................................................................................................................... 
Address 
.......................................................................................................................... 
.......................................................................................................................................... 
.......................................................................................................................................... 
 
7.      Do you engage in sales of vehicle only?    Yes             No 
If not, what other services  ......................................................................................... 
 
8.      Do you have a repair garage?    Yes ................................  No ............................... 
 
If Yes, do you have qualified/trained technicians? Yes .................. No................ 
 
A.  Qualification of technicians ................................................................................... 
 
9.      Do you deal in second-hand vehicles only?  Yes ..................... No....................... 
 
If Yes, what is the source of second market? 
 
Imported ............................................... Nigerian used ............................................... 
(a) Do you have a show room?   Yes ..............................  No................................. 
(b) What is the space occupied (approx.sq.m) ........................................................ 
10.     What brands do you deal in? 
(a) .................................................................................................................................... 
B 1647  
 
(b) .................................................................................................................................... 
(c) .................................................................................................................................... 
Others ......................................................................................................................... 
11. What advice do you think will assist Government to improve trade in used 
vehicles? …...............................………………………………………… 
12. What is your stock volume per annum? 
(a)  Under 20 
(b)  20                      —                         50 
(c)  50                      —                       100 
(d)  100                    —                       300 
(e)  300                    —                       500 
(f )  500                    —                     1,000 
(g) 1,000 and above 
 
13. Do you have Dealer's Number Plates? Yes .......................... No...................... 
If Yes, how many? ......................................................................................................... 
Provide your dealership Plate Code............................................................................ 
14. Do you keep records of the vehicles sold by your company (Duty Certificate 
Engine and Chassis Number, etc.)  Yes ..................................  No.................................... 
 
15. Are records computerized? Yes ..................................  No................................... 
DECLARATION 
I Declare that the information provided in this form is to the best of my knowl- 
edge correct and binding on me and will notify the appropriate authority of any change. 
 
 
.............................................................. 
Signature and Company's Stamp 
B 1648  
 
SCHEDULE 1                   (Regulation 33 (2)) 
 
FORM MVA 10D 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
DRIVING SCHOOL REGISTRATION FORM 
 
 
1.     Driving School Details 
Applicant ’s 
Passport 
Photograph  
 
(i) Name of School ………........…………………………………………. 
…………………...................................………………………………..  
 
(ii) Address …………....................……………………………………...  
…………………………………………………………………………. 
Tel……………… Mobile ...…………….fax…………………………...... 
 
(iii) Name of Proprieto r.………………………………………………….. 
(iv) Name of Chief Instructor/Inspector …......…………………………. 
(v) Qualification(s )  
............................................................................  
.......................................................................................................
. 
 
2.     Facilities 
 
(i) Driving Range - Available …………Not Available …………………... 
(ii) Inspection - Available ………………Not Available…………………... 
(iii) Demonstrator - Available ….....……Not Available………………....... 
(iv)  List of Instructors and Qualifications : 
(a) ….....................…………………………………………………… 
(b) …………....………………………………………………….......... 
(c) ................................……………………………………………… 
(d) ................................…………………………………………….. 
(e) …......................…………………………………………………... 
(f) …….......…………................……………………………………..  
 
(v) Courses Offered : 
(a) ….....................…………………………………………………… 
(b) …………....………………………………………………….......... 
(c) ................................……………………………………………… 
(d) ................................…………………………………………….. 
(e) …......................…………………………………………………... 
(f) …….......…………................……………………………………..  
 
(vi) Duration of Training 
 
(vii) No. of Training Sessions 
B 1649  
3. Equipment  
 (i) Stimulator(s) (No. Available) 
(ii) Demonstration Vehicle(s) 
 Vehicle Reg. No. 
(a) ….....................…………………………………………………… 
(b) …………....………………………………………………….......... 
(c) ................................……………………………………………… 
(d) ................................…………………………………………….. 
(e) …......................…………………………………………………... 
(f) …….......…………................……………………………………..  
 
(iii) Any Other Facility/Equipment Available? 
……………………………………………………..................................  
........................................................................................................  
 
I certify that the information given above is to the best of my knowledge 
correct and true. 
 
Sign ……………………………… Date ………………………………….. 
 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
(i) Preliminary Inspection : 
Facilities on Ground 
 
Facility/ 
Equipment 
Up to Standard 
Required 
Not up to Standard 
Required 
Remarks 
    
    
    
    
    
 
(ii) Suitability of Driving School 
....................................................................................................  
...................................................................................................
. (iii) Sector MVA Officer's Comments 
Having inspected the above mentioned facilities, I hereby confirm that the 
observations above are true. 
 
Name ………………………..…………. Rank………………….....................  
Sign/Date…........................……………………………………………………  
B 1650  
 
(iv) Zonal MVA Officer's Remarks 
 
Recommended ..................... . Not Recommended ................................ 
Name ................................................. . Rank .................................... 
Sign/Dat e .........................................................................................  
Director MVA's Recommendations 
 
Recommended ..................... . Not Recommended ................................ 
Name ................................................. . Rank .................................... 
Sign/Dat e .........................................................................................  
Approving Authority : Corps Marshal and Chief Executive 
 
Approved .................................. . Not Approved ................................. 
Name ................................................................................................ 
Sign/Dat e .................................. . Officia l Stamp ...............................  
B 1651  
 
SCHEDULE 1           (Regulations 45 and 53 (4)) 
FORM MVA 11 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA APPLICATION 
FOR NATIONAL DRIVER’S LICENCE (FRESH 
APPLICATION FORM) 
(To be filled in triplicate) 
 
Applicant ’s 
Passport 
Photograph  
 
Class of Licence Applied for ………………....……e.g. A,B,C, ………………………… 
Issuing State ……………Local Government …………………………………………..... 
Name ofApplicant …………………………………………………………………………. 
( Surnam e )                (Other Names ) 
Contact Address ………………………………………………………………………… 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 
(Includ e P.O. Box No. if available ) 
Tel. No…………………………….. Mobile No ………………………………………... 
(You are Required by Law to notify this Office of any Change in Address) 
Driving Training Record 
 
Did You Attend Driving Courses? Yes/No ….......………………………………………. 
IfYes, Specify ……………………………………………………………………………… 
Give Learners Permit Number                   What Issue? ………… (1st, 2nd, 3rd etc.) 
Date of Issue ………….…………… Expiry Date ……………………………………….. 
Have you ever Been disqualified from Driving ? Yes/No ………......................……… 
If Yes,Why ………………………………………………………………………………. 
When ? ………………………………………… For How Long ? ………………………. 
 
Personal Data 
 
Sex: Female/Male………………......… Date of Birth ………….………20……………… 
Age Last Birthday ……………… Years.........................day.......month..........year.......... 
Height ……… Metre …… Cm. Do You have any facial marks? Yes/No ….......…… 
Blood Group (e.g.A+,O+ etc.) …………………….…………………………………….. 
Do you require Glasses for Driving ? Yes/No ……...........……………………………… 
Any form of Disability? If Yes, Explain …….........……………………………………… 
Certificate of Medical Fitness (Attached/Not attached) ………………………………. 
B 1652  
 
DECLARATION 
 
I declare that the information provided in this application is true and binding 
on me. I will notify the appropriate authority of any change therein. 
 
Signature and Thumb Print of Applicant 
 
 
Sign within box                                                                   Right Thumb only 
 
National Identity Card Number (if available)…………..........................………………. 
Dated this ………………….................… Day of ………….....……………. 20………… 
 
 
 
(Testing Officer) 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
Driving Test Result : Pass/Fail ….......………… Date of Test ….……………………… 
Vision Test Result: Pass/Fail………………...… Date of Test …………………………. 
Test Certificate No……………………………… Date ……............…………………..… 
Does Applicant require Glasses to Drive ? : Yes/No ……..................................……… 
Have you checked all the details given by this applicant? Yes/No ….……………… 
Do you recommend issuing of Licence : YES/No……… 
If Yes, State Class ........................................................................………………………… 
 
Signature of Testing Officer …………………………...................................................... 
 
Licensing Officer 
 
The issuance of the licence for the applicant is/is not approved and authorised by me : 
Amount Paid ………….............… Date ………………… Receipt No……………...… 
Signature of Authorised Officer 
Sign within box 
 
Date ....................................................... Authorization Number ….………………….. 
 
Information processing centre (IPC) 
 
Motorcycle   PRI                Date                                Commercial 
 
Licence No. Allocated (tick one only)  
 
(Alpha-Numeric Code)                LG 
 
Security Code of Licence …………...............................................................…………… 
 
Signature of Security Officer …………….............................................................……... 
B 1653 
SCHEDULE 1 
FORM MVA 12 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
(Regulation 46) 
Applicant ’s 
Passport 
 
 
APPLICATION FOR NATIONAL DRIVER'S LICENCE 
(REPLACEMENT/RENEWAL APPLICATION FORM) 
(To be filled in duplicate) 
 
Photograph  
 
Class of Licence Applied for ………………................................…… (e.g. A,B,C, J) 
Issuing State ………................…… Local Government ………………………………… 
Name ofApplicant .......................………………………………………………………… 
(Surname)            (Other Names) 
ContactAddress …………………………............………………………………………… 
(include P.O. Box No. if available) 
Tel No. ………….......………………… Mobile No ……………....................................... 
(You are required by Law to notify this Office of any Change in Address) 
 
Particulars of Previous Licence 
 
Number 
 
Class…………………………………… 
 
Date of First Issue ………………….....… Expiry Date ………….……………………… 
Issuing State …………...……………… Issuing Local Government 
Have You Ever Been Disqualified From Driving? Yes/No …..........…………………… 
If Yes, Why? 
......................................................................................................................... When 
…………………………………… For How Long? ……........................................ 
 
Personal Data 
 
Sex : Female/Male……………………… Date of Birth …....……….………… 20……… 
Height ...........……….. Metre ………..... cm.                 Day       Month   Year 
Do you have any facial marks? Yes/No ………. blood Group ……(e.g. A,O-etc) 
Any Form of Disability? If Yes, Explain ….....…………………………………………… 
Certificate of Medical Fitness (Attached/Not Attached) ……………………………… 
DECLARATION : 
I Declare that the information provided in this application is true and binding 
on Me. I will notify the appropriate authorities of any change therein. 
 
Signature and Thumb Print of Applicant 
 
 
 
Sign within box                                                        Right thumb only 
 
National Identity Card Number if Available) …................………………………………. 
Dated this ……………… Day of ……………………................…….20………………… 
B 1654  
 
 
 
(Licensing Officer) 
 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
 
Amount Paid ……………........……………Date………………… Receipt No……….. 
Signature of Licensing Officer 
 
Sign within box 
 
The issuance of Renewal/Replacement Licence for the Applicant is/is not approved by me. 
Authorization Number …........................................................……………………………. 
Signature of Chief State Licensing Officer …………………………..………………… 
Dat e … … …… … …… … …… … …… … … …… … …… … …… … …… … … …… … …… … …… 
Information Processing Centre (IPC) 
 
Motorcycl e                 PR                   Private                 Commercial 
 
 
Licence No. Allocated (tick one only) 
 
 
(Alpha-Numeric Code) 
 
Security Code of Licence ……………… Signature of Security Officer ……………… 
B 1655 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
FORM MVA 13 
(Regulation 52) 
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
APPLICANT DRIVER'S MEDICAL/PHYSICAL 
EXAMINATION FORM 
Applicant ’s 
Passport 
Photograph  
 
Applicant's Name : ………………………………………………………………………… 
(Surname)           (Other Names) 
 
Sex …………………...............Age ……………………… State ……....……………….. 
Weight ……… Height ……………………… Date of Birth …..………………………. 
 
Medical Examination 
Auditory           — Hearing ability  
Good Fair Poor 
Musculoskelata l — 
 
Posture 
Physical Appearance 
 
Good 
 
 
 
Poor 
 
Deformity                                      Upper Limbs (No. of Fingers) …………………… 
Lower Limbs (No. of Toes & Shape of Feet) ….........................………………………. 
Vision                —                        VisionAcuity …………………………………… 
 
Mental State 
 
Fit                                                      Unfit 
Stable                                                Unstable 
Rational                                             Irrational 
Summary of Finding ........................................................................................................... 
................................................................................................................................................. 
................................................................................................................................................. 
 
.........................................................                        ......................................................... 
Name of Medical Officer                                              Designation  
 
................................................ .............................. ............................................ 
Signature  Date 
 
CONFIDENTIAL 
Official Stamp 
B 1656  
 
SCHEDULE 1           (Regulations 56 (4) and 59) 
 
FORM MVA 14 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
STATEMENT OF RESULT OF A DRIVING TEST 
(Forms should be filled in capital letter) 
Applicant ’s 
Passport 
Photograph  
 
Name …........................................……………………………………………………………... 
Address …………………………………................................……………………………… 
Has this day been examined on a vehicle of group ……………………………………. 
and has failed/ passed the test of competence to drive prescribed for the purpose of 
the Road Traffic Regulations (PART VI) (Drivers Licences) (Regulation 29 ). 
 
Date ……………………………….                                …………………………….. 
Testing Officer 
 
Note 1 : No further test on a vehicle of the same group can be undertaken until the 
expiry of one calendar month. 
 
Guidance : 
 
Examiners have regard to the points listed in deciding whether a candidate is 
competent to drive. Before submitting yourself for another driving test you will be 
well advised to give special attention to the items which the Examiner has marked. 
 
The fact that an item has been marked does not necessarily mean that the 
examiner was completely satisfied. The items marked are those regarded as most 
important in your care. 
 
1. Knowledge of the contents of the Highway Code. 
2. Ability to read a motor car number plate at 25yards in good daylight (with the 
aid of glasses, if worn). 
3. Show courtesy and consideration for the safety and convenience of other 
road users: pedestrians/ drivers/cyclists. 
4. Take suitable precautions before starting the engine. 
5.  Move away safely and smoothly /straight ahead or/at an angle/ on a gradient. 
6. Overtake /meet/or cross/ the part of other vehicles safely. 
7. Take precautions at cross roads and/or road junctions 
(i) Adjustment of speed on approach 
(ii) Proper use of mirror, signals, brakes, and/or gear on approach. 
(iii) Correct positioning of the vehicle before /after turning left/right. 
(iv) Avoiding of cutting left hand corners. 
(v) Looking right/left/and right again before crossing. 
8. Stop the vehicle normally/in a safe position/ in emergency under control. 
9. Revise the vehicle normally/ in a safe position/in emergency under control. 
B 1657  
 
10. Turn the vehicle into a limited opening either to the right or left under 
control/and with reasonable accuracy. 
11. Give the Highway Code signals/in good time/ clearly and unmistakably by 
hand/and by mechanical indicators fitted to the vehicle. 
12. Take correc t and prompt action on all signals by traffic signs/tra ffic 
controllers/and appropriate action on signs given by other road users. 
13. Act correctly at pedestrians crossing. 
14. Regulate speed to suit varying road traffic conditions. 
15. Keep well to the right in normal driving. 
16. Make proper use of the front brake (motor cyclists). 
17. Take rear observation (motor-cyclists). 
18. Make proper use of the mirror before signaling/bending and maneuvering/ 
moving away/altering course to over take/turning right/or stopping. 
19. Make proper use of accelerator, clutch, gears, brakes (hand/foot), steering. 
20. Show anticipation of the actions of pedestrians/drivers/cyclists.  
 
Driving examiners are not Permitted to discuss details of the test 
 
Any complaints or queries arising out of your failure to pass the prescribed 
test should be addressed to the Chief Vehicle Inspector Officer of the State or the 
Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, as applicable. 
B 1658 
SCHEDULE 1 
FORM MVA 15 
(Regulation 42) 
 
(f) Class F — agricultural machines and tractors ; 
(g) Class G — articulated vehicles ; 
(h) Class H 
(i) Class  J 
— 
— 
earth-moving vehicles ; 
special, for physically handicappe d persons. 
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
LEARNER'S PERMIT TO DRIVE A 
MOTOR VEHICLE 
Applicant’s 
Passport 
Photograph 
 
 
Name …………………………………...............……………………………………………… 
Address ……………………………………………………………………………………… 
is permitted to drive from …………………to ……………… a motor vehicle in group. 
 
Subject to the following conditions : 
 
(i) in the case of a vehicle in Groups B to E, that a driver duly licenced to drive such a 
vehicle is beside him ; 
(ii) does not drive a Taxi or Storage Carriage when carrying Passengers ; and 
(iii) in the case of a Motorcycle in Group A, any accompanying passenger must be a 
licenced driver. 
 
Total No. of Previous 
Learner's Permits issued 
Office 
Stamp 
Fees Paid …………………………                          ……………...................………………  
Motor Licensing Authority 
 
VEHICLE GROUPS (GROUPS NOT APPLICABLE TO BE STRUCK OUT BY MLA) 
 
(a) Class A — Motorcycle ; 
(b) Class B — a motor vehicle of less than three tonnes Gross weight other 
than motor cycle commercial, taxi, stage carriage or omnibus ; 
(c) Class C — a motor vehicle of less than three tonnes gross weight, other 
than motorcycles ; 
(d) Class D         —     a motor vehicle, other than motorcycle, taxi, stage carriage 
or omnibus but excluding an articulated vehicle or vehicle 
drawing a trailer ; 
(e) Class E          —     a motor vehicle other than motorcycle or articulated 
vehicle ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TO BE COMPLETED BY TESTING OFFICER 
Result of Test                                                                                          Group Passed 
Ref. No……………………………………. 
Passed/Failed ……………......… . Type of Vehicle Tested on ……… 
 
(Delete as appropriate) 
Registration No …………………………… 
Office 
Stamp 
 
.............................................. .                        ..................................................  
Date                                                          Testing Officer 
 
Note :- This Permit is not valid when the holder fails to pass a driving test. 
B 1659  
 
SCHEDULE 1                         (Regulation 53) 
FORM MVA 16 
NATIONAL DRIVER’S LICENCE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CLASS OF LICENCE 
A .   Motorcycl e :                                                                                 INDEX  
B.   Motor vehicle of less than 3 tonnes gross weight other         BG: BLOOD GROUP 
than motorcycle; taxi; stage carriage or omnibus ;             F/MARKS: FACIAL MARKS  C. 
C.   Motor vehicle of less than 3 tonnes gross weight other 
than motorcycl e ;                                                                    REP: NO. OF REPLACEMENT 
D .   Motor vehicl e other than motorcycle , taxi,  
stage carriage or omnibus but excluding an                            REN :    NO. OF RENEWALS 
articulated vehicle or vehicle drawing a trailer ; 
E .   Motor vehicle , other than motorcycl e or articulate d                            HT :   HEIGHT 
vehicle ; 
F.     Agricultural machines and tractors ;                                          GL : GLASSES 
G.    Articulated vehicles ;                                                                   D OF B  DATE OF BIRTH 
H .   Earth moving vehicles ; 
J.    Special for physically handicapped person ; 
1. Misuse of this card is a violation of Federal Government Regulations. 
2. Replacement of this licence may be subject to an administrativ e fee. 
3. A person may be authorized to have a combination of two or more 
of the classes but none of them shall overlap 
This is the property of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 
If found please return to the Federal Road Safety Corps Command 
 
The Nationa l Driver' s Licenc e may in additio n to the format shown above be printe d on 
PVC Card with embedded chip containing information to be determined from time to time by the 
Commission.  
B 1660 
SCHEDULE 1 
FORM MVA 17 
(Regulation 61) 
 
 
LEARNER DRIVER’S SIGN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
e 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Red Letter “L” to be on white background) 
B 1661 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
FORM MVA 18 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
(Regulation 108 (5)) 
 
VEHICLE PASSENGER MANIFEST 
 
Make of Vehicle ................................................... Driver's Name ......................................... 
Type of Vehicle :......................................... Address ............................................................ 
Colour ........................................................................................................................................ 
Registration No. ................................................ Departure Point ........................................ 
Destination .............................................................................................................................. 
Engine No. ............................................. Departure Time ...................................................... 
Chassis No : ......................................... Arrival Time ............................................................ 
Date : .......................................................................................................................................... 
 
S/No. Passenger's 
Name 
Address Sex Destinatio n Name of 
Next-of-kin 
Address/ 
Telephone of 
Next -of-kin 
       
Driver's Sign ........................................... Date ..................................................................... 
B 1662  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Form 
SCHEDULE 3                       (Regulation 142 (1)) 
 
FORM MVA 19 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
CERTIFICATE OF ROAD WORTHINESS 
(This Certificate is valid for 6 months for Commercial vehicle and 
12 months for Private vehicles from date of issue ) 
 
SerialNo. ………....…………………………………………………………………………. 
Date of Issue …....…………………………………………………………………………… 
Date of Expiry …..........………………………………………………………………………. 
I hereby certify that I have examined the Vehicle described below, which in all 
respect conforms with the requirements of the Road Traffic Regulation, and that it is 
road-worthy and is suitably constructed for use as : 
 
(i) Commercial (Goods only) Taxi, Car Hire 
(ii) Private car (one year) 
(iii) Stage Carriage 8-15 persons 
(iv) Stage carriage over 15 persons 
(v) Omnibus 
* Delete as appropriate 
Make of Vehicle ........................................................................................................................ 
Type of Vehicle ........................................................................................................................ 
. 
Engine No ................................................................................................................................. 
 
Chassis No 
................................................................................................................................ Name of 
Owner ......................................................................................................................... Address 
..................................................................................................................................... Ne t 
Weight ....................................................................................      kg 
Weight authorised to carry..........................................................      kg 
 
Gross Weight ................................................................................      kg 
 
No. of persons authorised to carry (including Drivers) .......... 
 
.................................................... 
Signature of Vehicle Inspection Officer 
and Official Stamp 
 
Original copy to Vehicle Owner 
B 1663 
SCHEDULE 3 (Regulation 142 (2)) 
FORM MVA 20 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
ROAD WORTHINESS VALIDITY TAG 
B 1664  
PARTICULARS OF G.M.R. 
Number Date 
ROAD WORTHINESS CERT. 
Number Date 
 Transmission  
System  
Replace Repair Service 
Clutch Pressure 
plate    
Clutch disc    Clutch release 
finger     
Slave cylinder    Hydraulic     linkage    Clutch cover    Selector fork    Clutch pedal    Clutch cable    Gear axle    Propelle r shaft    Center bearing    Driving shaft    Speedometer     cable    Shaft hanger    Gear lever        ENGINE  
ACCESSORIES    
Injectio n pump    Injection nozzles    Carburetor     Radiator    Water pump    Fuel filter    Oil filter    Air cleaner    Air filter    Fan blade    Fan belt    Fuel gauge    Exhaust pipe    Exhaust pot    Timing chain/    Adjuster     Complete Eng. 
Overhaul     
Engine block 
Crankshaft    
Pulle y      
Electrical  
System 
 
Replace 
 
Repair 
 
Service 
Head Lamp    Trafficator     Rear Light    Brake Light    Reverse Light    Parking Light    Plugs    Compartment  
Lights    
Horn    Wipers Motor    Ignition Coil    Stertor Motor    Distribution 
Assembly    
Distribution 
Cable    
Voltage  
Regulator    
Battery     Dash Board    Wiring System    Contact Point    Wiper Blade    
 
 
SCHEDULE 3                             (Regulation 143) 
 
FORM MVA 21 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
VEHICLE INSPECTION REPORT (NOTICE OF DEFECTS) 
 
Original to Vehicle Owner                                                                       Test No. 
 
Make ………………………..  Engine No……………………… 
Type…………………………   Chassis ………………………… 
Identification Mark………….  Vehicle Registration Book No…… 
Vehicle Category …………...   Weight authorised to carry …….. 
 
Suspension/brakes Replace    Repai r   Service  
Wheels bolts/nuts  
Tyres  
Springs 
Shock Absorbers 
Stabilize r Bars 
Tie-Rods 
Ball Joint 
Steerin g  System 
Wheel balancing 
Wheel alignment 
Rim 
Brake serve 
Brake pedal 
Brake lining 
Brake pedal 
Brake lining 
Brake pads 
Brake pipes 
Maste r cylinder 
Stave Cylinder 
Hand Brake 
Brake drums 
Brake caliper 
Brake dick 
Brake hub 
 
BODY/CAB 
Chassis 
Flame  
Cross member  
Fenders 
Floor 
Roof 
Bonnet 
Boot 
Boot lock 
Glasses 
Upper Panel 
Lower Panel 
Bumper 
Mirrors  
Paint 
Running board 
Seals 
Upholstery 
Grill 
Doors 
Pillars 
Door locks 
                                                                              RESULT/REMARK   
Station ……………………………………… Examiner ….………………………… 
B 1665 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
FORM MVA 22 
(Regulation 144) 
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
OFF THE ROAD 
 
Original Vehicle No. ........……………...................................  
 
By virtue of the powers vested in me by the Road Traffic Regulations, I hereby 
place vehicle, 
 
Identificatio n No. ........................................................................ 
Make ...........................................................................................  
 
OFF THE 
ROAD 
 
DEFECTS OCCASIONING PROHIBITION: 
 
...............................................................................................................  
 
................................................................................................................  
 
.................................................................................................
. This OFF-THE-ROAD Notice shall come into force immediately at 
 
......................... . a.m/p.m. the   .............................da y of...........20............. 
and shall continue in force until the vehicle is re -examined and certified to be 
road worthy. 
 
 
 
Signed 
..................................................... .           ...........................................  
Signature of the person to whom                    Vehicle Inspection Officer 
the Notice is given on inspection 
B 1666 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
FORM  MVA  23 
FEDERAL  REPUBLIC  OF  NIGERIA 
(Regulation 192 (2)) 
 
Injured 
Male Female 
Children Adult Children Adult 
    
    
    
 
 
NOTIFICATION/INVITATION  TO  INSPECT  MOTOR  VEHICLE/ 
MOTORCYCLE INVOLVED  IN A CRASH 
 
1. Nigeria Police Force 
Motor Traffic Division 
State. 
 
2.          Federal Road Safety Commission 
RS ……………………………… 
……………………………….State 
 
Sir, 
 
NOTIFICATION/INVITATION TO INSPECT MOTOR VEHICLE/ 
MOTORCYCLE INVOLVED IN CRASH 
 
This is to notify and invite you to inspect the reported Crash with the following details : 
Make/Type of Vehicle involved ................................................................... 
Vehicle Category/Status (Private, Commercial, Government, Company), ................................. 
Registration Number ................................................................................................................... 
Age of Vehicle ............................................................................................................................. 
Number of passengers in the Vehicle at the time of Crash ......................................................... 
Cause of Crash ............................................................................................................................ 
Location of Crash ...................................................................................................................... 
Type of Road (Single Lane, Double Lane, Express, etc) ............................................................ 
Weather Condition (Rainy, Dark, Misty, etc) ............................................................................ 
Road Condition ........................................................................................................................... 
Time of Crash ............................................................................................................................. 
Name of Driver/Rider ................................... Age of Driver/Rider .......................................... 
Driving Licence No. ..................................... Date of Issue .................................................... 
Place of Issue ............................................... Driving/Riding Experience .................................. 
Any previous Crash Record? ........................ How many Times involved? .............................. 
Was it Fatal, Serious or Minor .................................................................................................... 
Present Crash Details : 
 
Killed 
Male Female 
Children Adult Children Adult 
    
    
    
 
Received by .................................................              Signed ....................................................... 
Date/Time ...................................................                                          COMACE 
Federal Road Safety Commission 
 
B 1667 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 4                                                                                 (Regulation 192 (2)) 
 
FORM  MVA  24 
FEDERAL  REPUBLIC  OF  NIGERIA 
ROAD TRAFFIC CRASH INFORMATION FORM 
TO BE COMPLETED AT THE CRASH SCENE 
 
 
1.       COMMAND                                                                       ROUTE                                                          LOCATION                                         CO-ORDINATE : 
 
LONGITUDE  
(IN KM FROM BASE)                                                           LATITUDE 
 
2.       DATE                                             TIME OF CRASH                                        REPORT TIME                                      ARRIVAL TIME                                      CAUSE(S) OF RTC 
 
3.       WEATHER CONDITION :      1. RAINY                       2. CLOUD                       3.  SUNNY                      4. DUSTY                       5.  FOGGY                      6. OTHERS (specify) 
 
4.                           RTC TYPE                                                                ROAD TYPE                                                                                DESCRIPTION OF LOCATION 
 
1. FATAL    2. SERIOUS     3. MINOR             1. STREET 
3.   ONE-WAY 
 
2. SINGLE CARRIAGE 
 
4.  DUAL CARRIAGE 
1.  STRAIGHT ROAD 
 
5.  T-JUNCTION 
2. Y-JUNCTION 
 
6. ROUND ABOUT 
3. BEND               4. BRIDGE 
 
7. CROSS ROAD 
 
5.       NATURE OF CRASH :             1.  SINGLE                                2. MULTIPLE 
8.  SLOPE 8. OTHERS (specify) .............................................................................. 
 
6.       VEHICLE INFORMATION 
 
S/No. Vehicle Category Vehicle Type Vehicle Make Vehicle Model Reg. Number Company/Organization ’s Name 
1.       
2.       
3.       
4.       
5.       
7.       TYPE OF COLLISION 
HEAD ON COLLISION             REAR IMPACT               LONE (CRASHED INTO AN OBJECT)                  LONE (SOMERSAULT)                      SIDE IMPACT 
 
8.       DRIVER(S) DETAILS 
 
S/No. Name NDL No.(s) S/No. Name NDL No.(s) 
1.      
2.      
3.      
 
No. Killed 
Age Group <3 3 - 9 10 - 17 18 - 40 41 - 60 Above 60 Tota l  Remarks  
Sex M F M F M F M F M F M F M F  
Driver/Rider - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  
Passenger                 
Pedestrian                 
Tota l                 
 ADULT CHILD TOTAL 
M F M F M F 
       
B 1668 
 
 
 
 
 
9 .     CASUA LTY INFORM ATION 
 
No. Injured 
Age Group <3 3 - 9 10 - 17 18 - 40 41 - 60 Above 60 Tota l  Remarks  
Sex M F M F M F M F M F M F M F  
Driver/Rider - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  
Passenger                 
Pedestrian                 
Tota l                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M F 
 
 
 NO. OF PEOPLE  NUMBER CONSCIOUS                                        NUMBER UNCONSCIOUS  
INVOLVED   
1 0 . ITEMS RECOVERED : See overleaf  11. NAMES OF CRASH VICTIMS : See overleaf 
1 2 . TYPE OF INJURY SUSTAINED    
 HEAD INJURY                                     BURNS  SPINAL CORD INJURY                                       LACERATION BRUISES 
 
FRACTUR E                                  SCALD                             CRUSH INJURY                                          OTHERS(Specified)  
 
1 3 .         FIRST AID ADMINISTRATION 
 
No. OF CASUALTY TREATED                                            HEAMOSTASIS                                     CARDIOPULMONARY RESUSCITATION (CPR) 
 
S/No. NAMES OF VICTIMS PHONE No. 
                                              
B 1669 
 
 
 
 
1 4 .        INITIAL REFERRALS 
ROAD TRAFFIC CRASH CLINIC                      GENERAL HOSPITAL                              TEACHING HOSPITAL                          ORTHOPAEDIC                    OTHERS(Specified)............. ..... 
(FRSC HELP AREA)                                               (NAME OF HOSPITAL)............................................................................................................................................................................................................................) 
1 5 .       PATROL/RESCUE TEAM LEADER 
NAME.......................................................................RANK.............................................PIN...........................................................SIGN................................................................GSM No.............................................................. 
PHOTOGRAPH OF CRASH SCENE : (YES/NO) 
COMMENTS/REMARKS.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
Detach pls. 
 
HOSPITAL FOLLOW UP : ADDITIONAL DEATH AFTER 
 
COMMAN                                             ROUTE                                  LOCATION                                           .............................,............................................................. 
 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
(IN KM FROM BASE) 
DATE                             TIME OF CRASH                           REPORT TIME                          ARRIVAL TIME 
NAME OF HOSPITAL FORM MVA 24 
 
ST WK                           2ND WK                                        3RD WK                                    TOTAL DEATHS WITHIN 30 DAYS 
 
     No. OF AMPUTEES   
LEG(S)                          ARM(S)                                          NAMES OF HOSPITALIZED VICTIMS : See overleaf HOSPITAL PHONE No :................................................................................................ 
 
(*)  e.g Under-Age Driver, Phisically Challenge Driver e. t. c. 
ITEMS RECOVERED                                                                                                                                    NAMES OF CRASH VICTIMS 
 
S/No. ITEMS TYPE No. 
                                             
 
B 1670 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VEHICLE CATEGORY 
 
PRIVATE 
CAUSES OF RTC 
 
SPEED VIOLATION 
 
 
.. 
CODE 
 
SPV 
INJURY DESCRIPTION 
 
Burn - harm, damage, or destroy by fire 
COMMERCIAL DANGEROUS DRIVING .. DGD Scald - burn with very hot liquid or steam 
GOVERNMENT TYPE BURST .. TBT Laceration - flesh/skin tear 
DIPLOMATIC FATIGUE .. FTQ Bruise - area of discoloured skin on body 
VEHICLE TYPE DANGEROUS OVERTAKING .. DOT Haemostasis -  arrest of bleeding 
BICYCLE STATIONERY VEHICLE/OBSTRUCTION .. OBS Crushed injury(Blytraumatized patient) - 
MOTOR CYCLE SLEEPING WHILE DRIVING .. SOS fracture and other injury to the body 
TRICYCLE ROUTE VIOLATION .. RTV CPR -mouth-to-mouth resuscitation 
CAR LIGHT/SIGN VIOLATION .. LSV  
SUV (JEEP) NIGHT JOURNEY(POOR VISIBILITY) .. NJR  
MINI BUS DRIVING UNDER ALCOHOL/DRUG INFLUENCE .. DAD  
LUXURY BUS WEATHER CONDITION .. WCD  
PICK UP MECHANICALLY DEFICIENT VEHICLE .. MDV  
TRUCK BAD ROAD .. BRD  
TANKER OVERLOADING .. OVL  
TRAILER USE OF PHONE WHILE DRIVING .. U P D  
OTHERS OTHERS (SPECIFY)    
 
B 1671 
 
 
 
 
ITEM TYPES 
PERISHABLE 
PERSONAL EFFECTS 
ELECTRONIC DEVICES 
MOBILE PHONE 
HOUSEHOL D ITEM 
BUILDIN G MATERIAL 
STATIONE RY 
VEHICLE 
OTHERS  
 
SKETCH OF CRASH SCENE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NAMES OF HOSPITALIZED VICTIMS 
 
S/No. NAMES OF VICTIMS S/No. NAMES OF VICTIMS S/No. NAMES OF VICTIMS 
      
      
      
B 1672  
 
SCHEDULE 5                              (Regulation 38) 
FORM MVA 25 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION TAG 
B 1673  
 
SCHEDULE 5                 (Regulations 37 and 39) 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
`NUMBER PLATE DIMENSIONS 
 
FIGURE  1 
PLATE DIMENSION FOR VEHICLES 
 
12 : 125 
30.80 cm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIGURE    2 
 
PLATE DIMENSION FOR MOTORCYCLES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Number Plate shall be as in dimensions and format shown above. It 
shall in addition contain graphics as may be determined by the Commission from 
time to time. 
B 1674  
 
SCHEDULE 5                    (Regulation 39 (3) (a)) 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
NUMBER PLATE DIMENSIONS 
 
FIGURE 3 
 
PRIVATEAND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES 
 
 
 
Country Flag 
Name of State 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Licensing Officer 
Code 
Name of Country 
Vehicle Number 
 
FIGURE 4                                (Regulation 39 (3)) 
(c) 
 
ARMED FORCES VEHICLES 
 
 
Coat of Arms 
 
Name of Armed Forces 
Vehicle Group 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
Licensing Officer 
Code 
Name of Country 
Vehicle Number 
 
Code for Armed 
Forces 
B 1675  
 
SCHEDULE 5           (Regulation 39 (3) (b), (4)) 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
NUMBER PLATE DIMENSIONS 
FIGURE 5. GOVERNMENT 
VEHICLES 
 
 
Coat of Arms 
Name of State 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FEDERA L REPUBLI C OF NIGERIA  
 
Local Governmen t Code 
Name of Country  
Vehicle Number 
Local Government/  
Area Counci l Identification  
 
 
 
 
 
Coat of Arms  
Nam e of Ministr y or Parastatal  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FEDERA L REPUBLI C OF NIGERIA  
 
Cod e of Ministr y Grou p Code  
Vehicl e  Grou p  Cod e  
Nam e  of  Countr y  
Vehicl e  Numbe r  
State/Fed . Gov. Code  
B 1676  
 
SCHEDULE 5                   (Regulation 39 (4) (a) )  
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
TYPICAL SAMPLES OF NUMBER PLATES FOR COMMERCIAL 
AND PRIVATE VEHICLES 
 
FIGURE 6 
 
TYPICAL NUMBER PLATES FOR COMMERCIAL AND PRIVATE VEHICLES 
 
Commercial Vehicles                                                                       Private Vehicles 
B 1677  
 
SCHEDULE 5                   (Regulation 39 (4) (b) )  
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
TYPICAL SAMPLES OF NUMBER PLATES FOR MILITARY AND 
GOVERNMENT VEHICLES 
 
FIGURE 7 
 
TYPICAL NUMBER PLATES FOR MILITARYAND GOVERNMENT VEHICLES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Government Vehicles                                        (b)         Military Vehicles 
Colour Code : Green on White                                       Colour Code : Black 
on White 
B 1678  
 
SCHEDULE 5                   (Regulation 39 (4) (c) )  
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA TYPICAL 
SAMPLES OF NUMBER PLATES FOR 
PARAMILITARYVEHICLES 
FIGURE 8 
PARAMILITARYVEHICLES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA            FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Colour Code : Black on White 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
B 1679 
SCHEDULE 5 (Regulation 5 (1) and (2)) 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
 
TYPICAL SAMPLES OF SPECIAL NUMBER PLATES 
FIGURE 9 
SPECIAL NUMBERS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA               FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA               FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA               FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA               FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
B 1680 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
(Regulatio n 31) 
 
{ 
{ 
{ 
 
TYPICA L SAMPLE S OF SPECIA L NUMBE R PLATES 
 
FIGUR E 10 
DEALER’S NUMBERS 
 
 
 
SKYMIT  MOTORS 
0 
 
 
 
 
 
Country Flag 
 
Name of 
Authorised  
Dealer  
 
Individual  
Vehicle  
 
Code DL A         548   1 
Code 
(Alphanumeric)  
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
(Alphanumeric) 
 
 
Dealer Number 
(Alphanumeric)  
 
Name of Country 
State Code 
Dealer’ s Code 
 
 
GENERAL MOTORS 
0 
DKN  135   3 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
OGO OLUWA 
0 
DOS  283   2 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
 
 
AIR FORCE 
0 
DIM  333   5 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
PAN 
4 
DKD  637   8 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
Colur Code : Red on White 
B 1681 
SCHEDULE 5 (Regulation 39 (4) (e)) 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
 
 
TYPICAL SAMPLES OF NUMBER PLATES FOR 
DIPLOMATIC VEHICLES 
 
FIGURE 11 
 
TYPICAL SAMPLES OF NUMBER PLATES FOR DIPLOMATIC VEHICLES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Colour Code : White on Black or Red Background 
B 1682  
 
SCHEDULE  6                     Regulatio n 56 (2) (h) 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
TRAFFIC CONTROL AND HAND SIGNALS 
B 1683  
 
SCHEDULE 7  
(Regulations 56 (2) (h) and 159 (2)) 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
ARMS SIGNALS 
 
 
ARMS SIGNALS 
When indicators or stop lights are not fitted (or are faulty). 
Also for use by pedal cyclists and those in charge of horses 
B 1684  
 
 
SCHEDULE 8                        (Regulation 152 (1)) 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS FOR ALL CATEGORIES OF VEHICLES 
B 1685  
 
SCHEDULE 9                             (Regulation 156) 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
ROAD MARKINGS: 
EDGE AND LANE LINES 
B 1686 
SCHEDULE 9 (Regulation 156) 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
TRAFFIC LIGHT SIGNALS 
B 1687 
SCHEDULE 9 Regulation 157 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
 
REGULATORY ROAD SIGNS 
B 1688 
SCHEDULE 9 (Regulation 156) 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
 
PROHIBITORY AND MANDATORY ROAD SIGNS 
B 1689 
SCHEDULE 9 (Regulation 156) 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
 
TRAFFIC ROAD SIGNS 
B 1690 
SCHEDULE 9 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
(Regulation 156) 
 
WARNING ROAD SIGNS 
B 1691 
SCHEDULE 9 (Regulation 156) 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
INFORMATIVE ROAD SIGNS 
B 1692  
 
SCHEDULE 10                        (Regulation 181 (2)) 
FORM MVA 26 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
CERTIFICATE OF RELEASE OF REMOVED VEHICLE 
 
Form …..............................................................................…………………………………… 
Serial No ………………………………………..................................................................... 
Date of Issue …………………………………...................................................................... 
(Official Stamp) ........................................................................................................................ 
I hereby certify that the vehicle with following particulars 
(i) Commercial (goods only) 
(ii) Taxi car hire, private car 
(iii) Stage Carriage 8-15 persons 
(iv) Stage Carriage over 15 persons 
(v) Omnibus 
(vi) Lorries, Trailers 
Delete as appropriate. 
 
Make of Vehicle ….............................……………………………………………………… 
Type of Vehicle …..............………………………………………………………………….. 
Identification Mark …......................……………………………………………………….. 
Engine No. ….....................…………………………………………………………………... 
Chassis No …...............……………………………………………………………………… 
NameofOwner…………………………........……………………………………………… 
Address .......................……………………………………………………………………… 
………………………………………………………Tel……………………………………… 
Reason for Removing the Vehicle .………………………………………………………... 
(State concisely Reason Vehicle was removed) 
.....................................................................................................................................................
. Date Removed …………………………… (Date Brought to Removed Vehicle Park) 
Date Released …...............………………………………………………………………….. 
Condition of Vehicle on removal ….........................……………………………………….. 
Condition of Vehicle on Release to Vehicle Owner ………………………………............ 
..................................................................................................................................................... 
 
………………....................……………          …………............………………………… 
Signature of Owner                               Signature and Stamp of Officer- 
in-charge of Removal Vehicle Park 
B 1693  
 
Offence(s) : 
Code                                                                            Location (give land mark) 
 
Route                                                                                                         Date                Time 
 
Driver’s Licence : 
Number                                      Date First Issued 
 
Renewal Date                             Expiry Date                                        Issuing State 
 
Confiscation : 
Vehicle Licence            Stage Carriage Cert.                 ID Card                  Proof of Ownership 
 
Driver’s Licence          Delivery Note/Waybill          Vehicle                     Others 
 
Insurance                     Roadworthines s Cert.            Vehicle Keys 
 
Passpor t                      Hackney Permit                      Police/FRSC/VIO Receipt/Ticket 
Report at : 
 
Location                                                 By     AM/PM                            Pay at 
 
 
SCHEDULE 11                                         (Regulation 220) 
FORM MVA 27 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
FEDERAL ROAD SAFETY COMMISSION (ESTABLISHMENT) ACT, 2007 
NOTICE OF OFFENCE SHEET 
 
Name of Offender ………………………………………………..……………………………... No/Rs AX 
Address …………………………………………………………………………………………….............…. 
Telephone No………………………………………………………………………………………...........….. 
 
A.      Offender to be declared wanted                   YES                              NO 
 
Qualificatio n               FSLC                    SSCE                  DEG REE            NONE 
 
Age 
 
Under 18              18-25                    26 – 36               36 – 45               Above 45 
 
B .        Vehicle : 
 
Reg No.                                                                                       Ty p e 
 
Colou r                                                                                         Make  
Motorcycl e      Statio n Wagon          Pickup Van 
Tricycl e                          Taxi                      Jeep                         Bus                                     Articulated    Tanker  
Truck  
Car (Saloon) 
Commercia l                    Private 
 
 
Government           Others 
 
 
C. 
 
 
 
 
 
D. 
 
 
 
 
 
E. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
F. 
B 1694  
 
G. Arresting Officer         (Tick as Appropriate) 
 
Uniformed Marshal                                                Pin                                                 Command 
 
Special Marshal                                                      Signature ……… Date……… Time………………. 
 
 
H.  CAUTION:   If you do not wish to be PROSECUTED, you may   pay the prescribed penalty to the 
specifie d bank and present the original teller to FRSC office (See details Overleaf).  
This Notice of Offence expires after 7 days from the date of issue, thereafter, you may be PROSECUTED 
 
I.           Do not move                             Yes                                No 
 
 
 
1. 
 
Tick Infringemen t(s) 
Assaulting Marshal On Duty 
 
Code 
AMD 
 
Points  
10 
 
Penalty 
10,000 
 
Category 
2 
2. Attempting To Corrupt Marshal On Duty ACS 10 10,000 2 
3. Caution Sign Violation CSV 3 3,000 3 
4. Construction Area Speed Limit Violation CAV 3 3,000 1 
5. Dangerous Driving DGD 10 50,000 1 
6. Do Not Move Violation DNM 2 2,000 2 
7. Driver’s Licence Violation DLV 10 10,000 2 
8. Driving Under Alcohol/Drug Influence DUI 5 5,000 2 
9. Driving With Worn-out Tyre TYV 3 3,000 1 
10. Driving With Expired/Without Spare Tyre E W T 2 2,000 3 
11. Excessive Smoke Emission ESE 5 5,000 1 
12. Failure To Cover Unstable Materials FCM 5 5,000 1 
13. Failure To Fix Red Flag On Projected Load FFF 3 3,000 1 
14. Failure to Move Over FMO 3 3,000 1 
15. Failure to Report Road Crash FRC 10 20,000 1 
16. Fire Extinguisher Violation FEV 3 3,000 3 
17. Inadequate Construction Warning Sign ICW — 50,000 1 
18. Light/Sign Violation LSV 2 2,000 2 
19. Medical Personnel/Hospita l Rejection of Road Crash Victim RCV — 50,000 1 
20. Operating Mechanically Deficient Vehicle MDV 5 5,000 1 
21. Obstructing Marshal on Duty OMD 3 3,000 2 
22. Operating A Vehicle with  Forged Documents OFD 10 20,000 2 
23. Overloading OVL 10 10,000 1 
24. Passengers’ Manifest Violation PMV 10 10,000 2 
25. Riding Motorcycle without Using Crash Helmet RMH 2 2,000 1 
26. Road Obstruction ROB 5 5,000 1 
27. Road Marking Violation RMV 5 5,000 1 
28. Route Violation RTV 10 10,000 1 
29. Seat Belt Use Violation SUV 5 5,000 1 
30. Speed Limit Violation SLV 5 5,000 1 
31. Unauthorised Removal/Tampering With Road Sign UTS 5 5,000 1 
32. Under Age Driving/Riding UDR — 10,000 1 
33. Use of Phone While Driving UPD 4 4,000 1 
34. Vehicle Licence Violation VLV 3 3,000 2 
35. Number Plate Violation NPV 3 3,000 1 
36. Vehicle Windshield Violation VWV 2 3,000 1 
37. Wrongful Overtaking WOV 3 3,000 1 
38. Projected Load In Excess Of Prescribed Limit PLE 3 3,000 1 
39. Vehicle Mirror Violation VMV 3 3,000 1 
40. Learners Driving Regulation Violation LDV 10 3,000 1 
41. Child Restraint Violation CRV 6 3,000 1 
42. Child Sitting Position Violation CPV 6 3,000 1 
43. Driving Right-Hand Steering Vehicle DRV 10 3,000 1 
44. Other Offences/Violations OFV 2 3,000 — 
Note : Custody fee on impounded Motor vehicle and Motorcycle/tricycl e is N200.00 and N100, respectively 
per day  payable after initial 24 hours of grace 
B 1695  
 
Do you wish to waive your Right to a court trial? 
 
If yes, pay the prescribed fine(s) in any of the designated Banks and bring the Teller to the FRSC office. 
DESIGNATED BANKS 
 
FIRST BANK         KEYSTONE BANK        UNION BANK                     UBA              UNITY BANK 
 
 
 
A/C NO 201327805 8         A/C NO 100066180 6       A/C NO. 002144703 4        A /C NO. 101370370 8    A/C NO 14024142250  
 
For further explanations, visit www.frsc.gov.ng/offences 
B 1696  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.    Personal Data 
SCHEDULE 11                                   (Regulation 66 (3)) 
FORM MVA 28A 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
DRIVER’S LICENCE SUSPENSION NOTICE 
Name ................................................................................................................................................................ 
Sex…................................................................E-mail ...................................................................................... 
Address…………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
Phone No. ............................………………………………………………………………………………….. 
DateofBirth…………………………………………………………………………………………………. 
2.    Offence(s) Data 
Date …………………………........... Time………………….. Location……………………………………. 
Offence(s) Code(s)……………….....……………...........…. Penalty Points…...........………………….... 
Vehicle Type…………………………….......................……. Vehicle Make ……...................…………….. 
Vehicle Reg No………………………………...................… Vehicle Colour…………………………….. 
3. Driver’s Licence 
Number ………………………………………………….....… Date First Issued…………………………. 
Renewal Date …………………… Expiry Date ……....…… Issuing State…………………...................... 
4.  Notice 
 
This Driver’s Licence Suspension Notice is hereby issued to you for having accumulated 
....…….. Penalty Points in contravention of Road Traffic Laws and Regulations of Nigeria. 
Your Driver’s Licence is hereby suspended for the period of 90 days effective from the date 
below . You shall not drive on any Nigerian Road until your suspension is lifted after meeting 
the conditions  stated hereunder. 
 
5. Conditions for Lifting Suspension 
 
(a) You shall attend a compulsory driver’s education of ten(10) hrs of two (2) hrs per day 
consecutively, within the period of suspension of 90 days at ........ .......... FRSC Command. 
(b) Failure to attend the compulsory driver’s education shall lead to withdrawal of    driver’s 
licence for a period of one year. 
(c) Any two period of suspension shall lead to withdrawal of National Driver’s Licence. 
 
6.   Authorization 
Issuing Command……………………………………………………....................………………………….. 
Issuing Officer …..........................................................……………………………………………………… 
PIN ………...............................................................................................................………………………….. 
Rank ……………………………………………………… Designation …………………………………… 
Signature …………………………………………………… Date…………………………………. 
B 1697  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.    Personal Data 
SCHEDULE 11                                   (Regulation 66 (4)) 
FORM MVA 28B 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
DRIVER’S LICENCE WITHDRAWAL NOTICE 
Name ................................................................................................................................................................ 
Sex…………………………………………… E-mail....................................................................................... 
Address…………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
Phone No. ............................………………………………………………………………………………….. 
DateofBirth…………………………………………………………………………………………………. 
2.    Offence(s) Data 
Date …………………………........... Time………………….. Location……………………………………. 
Offence(s) Code(s)……………….....……………...........…. Penalty Points…...........………………….... 
Vehicle Type…………………………….......................……. Vehicle Make ……...................…………….. 
Vehicle Reg No………………………………...................… Vehicle Colour…………………………….. 
3. Driver’s Licence 
Number ………………………………………………….....… Date First Issued…………………………. 
Renewal Date …………………… Expiry Date ……....…… Issuing State…………………...................... 
4.  Notice 
 
This Driver’s withdrawal notice is hereby issued to you for having accumulated the 
Maximum of 21 Penalty Points or two (2) consecutive suspension in contravention of 
Road Traffic Laws and Regulations of Nigeria . By this notice, your Driver’s Licence is 
hereby withdrawn for the period of one year effective from the date below and your 
driver’s licence is therefore invalidated. 
 
 
5. Conditions for Replacement of Driver’s Licence 
 
(a) Attend a compulsory driver’s education and test in any certified driving school. 
(b) Forward your certificate of completion to the under-mentioned FRSC office. 
(c) Complete other requirements necessary for replacement of Driver’s Licence. 
 
6.   Authorization 
Issuing Command……………………………………………………....................………………………….. 
Issuing Officer …..........................................................……………………………………………………… 
PIN ………...............................................................................................................………………………….. 
Rank ……………………………………………………… Designation ....................................................... 
Signature …………………………………………………… Date ................................................................ 
B 1698  
 
SCHEDULE 12                    (Regulation 134 (b)) 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
WARNING DANGER LABEL 
B 1699  
 
PROVISIONS RELATING TO DANGER LABELS 
 
1. Label Nos. 1,2A, 2B, 2C, 3, 4, 4A, 5, 6A, 6B and 6C shall be in the form 
of a square 10cm side standing on a corner; they shall have a block line 5mm in 
the edge and running parallel to it. Labels to be affixed to fixed tanks (tank - 
vehicle and tank-trailers) shall be of not less than 30cm side. 
 
2. Labels Nos. 7, 8 and 9 shall be rectangular, of standard format A5 (146 
x 210mm). For packages. These dimensions may be reduced to a format not less 
than A7 (74 x 105mm). 
 
3. An Inscription in figures or letters, concerning the nature of the danger 
may be placed on the lower part of the labels. 
 
(i) Danger labels, where they are required under the provisions of this An- 
nex, must be stuck on packages and fixed tanks or affixed in some other 
suitable manner. Only where the state of the outside of a packa ge does not 
permit this should labels be stuck on cards or labels securely attached to the 
package. On outer packaging and on fixed tanks, indelible danger markings 
corresponding exactly to the prescribed models may be used instead of labels. 
(ii) Where a package is required to bear two labels of the same model the 
labels shall be affixed in the manner indicated hereafter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(iii) It is the sender's duty to affix the labels to backages and, where appro- 
priate, to affix tanks and contains. 
 
1. EXPLANATION  OF  SYMBOLS 
 
The danger labels prescribed for substances and articles of Classes 1-8 
(see annexed plate) have the following meaning : 
 
No. 1 (black bomb on orange ground) : liable to explosion : 
No. 2A (black bomb on red ground) : danger of the (inflammable liquids) 
:No. 23 (black flame on ground of equidistant alternate and white vertical stripes) 
danger of fire (inflammable solids). 
No. 2C  (black flame on white grounds, lower triangle liable red) : sub- 
stance liable to spontaneous ignition. 
No. 2D (black flame on blue ground) : danger of emission of inflammable 
gases on contact with water, 
No. 3 (flame over a ci rcle, on yellow g round) : oxidizing substances or 
organic peroxide, 
B 1700  
 
No. 4 (St. Andrew's Cross on ear on corn black on white ground) : harmful 
substance, to be kept apart from foodstuffs in vehicles and at loading, unloading 
or trans loading points, 
No. 5 (Liquid dripping from a test-tube on to a plate and from another test- 
tube on to a hand. Black white g round lower triangle liable black with a white 
border) : corrosive substance, 
 
No. 6   ( stylized trefoil inscription RADIOACTIVE, a vertical stripe the 
lower half with following text contents Activity symbol and descriptions black on 
white ground vertical stripe red), 
 
Radioactive substance in packages of Category 1. WHITE in the event of dam - 
age to the packages danger to health by ingestion or inhabitation of or contact 
with spilled contents, 
 
No. 6B (like the foregoing but with two vertical stripes in the lower half and 
the following text Content Activity Transport index symbol and inscriptions black 
upper half of ground yellow, lower half of ground white vertical stripes red 
radioactive substance in packages of Category II. YELLOW packages to be kept 
away from packages containing developed radiographic or photographic plate or 
films, in the event of damage to packages, danger to health to ingestion or inha- 
lation or contact with spilled content, and risk of external irradiation at a distance. 
 
Prescribed in schedule 5 to 12 as appropriate in marginal 3655 (1), (2) and N.6C 
(like the foregoing, but with three vertical stripes in the lower half) radioactive 
substance in package of category III YELOW: packages to be kept away from 
packages containing underdeveloped radiographic or photographic plates or films; 
in the event of damage to packages danger to health, by ingestion, or inhalation 
of, or contest with, spilled contents, and risk of external tradition at a distance; 
 
No. 7 (Open black umbrella on white ground) : keep dry. 
 
No. 8 (two black arrows on white ground this side up label to be affixed, with 
arrows pointing upwards on two opposite side of the package). 
B 1701  
 
SCHEDULE 13                       (Regulation 119 (7)) 
SPECIFICATIONS OF FIRE EXTINGUISHER 
TO BE CARRIED BY DIFFERENT CATEGORIES OF VEHICLES 
Every extinguisher shall have the following specifications : 
(i) It shall be the ABC Dry- Chemical Powder type and Multipurpose risk 
application for classes A, B, & C fires. 
 
(ii) It shall be portable. 
 
(iii) It shall be simple to operate. 
 
(iv) It shall be refillable and rechargeable. 
 
(v) It shall be environment friendly to the Ozone layer of the atmosphere and 
non-toxic. 
 
(vi) It shall be stored pressure type. 
 
(vii) It shall have safety pressure gauge ; and 
 
(viii) It shall have reflective (luminous) bracket, neck, ring, belt and hose 
holder. 
 
(ix) It shall be an unexpired one. 
B 1702  
 
SCHEDULE 14                             (Regulation 40) 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
ROAD CHARGES 
 
1.  Change of Ownership 
(i) Vehicle 
(ii) Motorcycle 
 
2. Registration Fee 
(i) Vehicle below N1 million 
(ii) Tippers, Trucks, Trailers, Buses above N1 million 
(iii) Cars over N 1 million 
 
3.  Proof of Ownership Certificate 
 
4.  Vehicle Licence 
 
(i) Vehicle with capacity of below 1.6 litres 
(ii) Vehicle with capacity of below 1.6 -2 litres 
(iii) With capacity of below 2.1-3 litres 
(iv) Vehicle with capacity of below 3.1 litres and above 
(v) Tippers and Lorries 
(vi) Tankers and Trailers 
(vii) 16 tyres trailers 
(viii) Tractors and bulldozers 
(ix) Motorcycle private 
(x) Motorcycle commercial 
 
5.  Road Worthiness 
 
(i) Cars and Mini buses 
(ii) Luxurious buses 
(iii) Lorries, tippers, articulated vehicles (commercial vehicles to be tested every 
six months) private vehicles, one year. 
 
6.  Request for Information 
 
7.  Motor Vehicle Dealer’s Licence 
 
(i) Dealer’s permit/licence 
(ii) Motorcycle 
(iii) Registration 
 
8.  Driving Licence 
(i) Learner’s permit 
(ii) Driver’s Licence 
B 1703  
 
9.  Replacements  
 
(i) Loss of number plate 
(ii) Loss of vehicle licence 
(iii) Loss of driving licence 
10. Vehicle Registration Booklet 
 
11. Number Plates 
 
(i) Standard motor vehicle 
(ii) Standard motorcycle 
(iii) Articulated 
12. Special Number Plates 
 
(i) Out of series 
(ii) Out of series with special features 
(iii) Fancy 
(iv) Reservation 
(v) Special Number 
(vi) Certificate of Proof of Ownership 
 
13. Hackney carriage 
 
(i) Taxi cab 
(ii) Car hire service 
(iii) Kabukabu 
 
(iv) Any vehicle with capacity to carry more than 1 person but not more than 21 
persons.  
(v) Any vehicle with capacity to carry more than 21 persons but less than 40 
persons.  
(vi) Any vehicle with capacity to carry more than 40 persons but less than 50 
persons.  
(vii) Any vehicle with capacity to carry 50 persons and above. 
(viii) Commercial vehicles for goods. 
(a) Tankers 
(b) Vehicle for goods other than tipper but more than 3 tons 
(ix) Articulated Vehicles 
 
(a) Tankers 
(b) Tippers 
(c) Trailers 
(x) Vehicle of inter-state carriage 
 
(xi) Company’s staff bus with 23 seats 
B 1704  
 
(xii) Miscellaneous 
(a) Hackney carriage 
(b) Stage Carriage 
(c) Commercial vehicles 
(d) Articulated vehicles 
 
All road charges are to be determined and published from time to time by Joint 
Tax Board (JTB). 
B 1705  
SCHEDULE 15            (Regulations 55 and 145) 
FORM MVA 29 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
Permissible Maximum Weight for Motor Vehicles 
Vehicle Weights 
 
The permissible maximum weight for various categories of heavy vehicles which 
may be operated on a Federal highway is as specified hereunder, that is— 
 
A. For motor vehicles and trailers in each case not forming part of an articulated 
vehicle, the following classes of such vehicles are permitted—- 
 
Classes of vehicle                                                                    Permissible gross 
weight  tonnes 
(a) Two-axled vehicles— 
(i) Where the distance between the axles is less than 2.65 metres         14 
(ii) Where the distance between the axle is at least 2.65 metres            16 
(b) Three axled vehicles— 
Their weight shall not exceed 16 260 kilograms except as specified below : 
(i) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at 
least 3 metres.                                                                                             18 
(ii) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is 
at least 3.2 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 8 130 
kilograms. 20 
(iii) Where the distance between the foremost and the rearmost axle 
is at least 3.9 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 8 130 
kilograms.                                                                                                    20 
(iv) Where the distance between the foremost and the rearmost axle 
is at least 3.9 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 8 640 
kilograms.                                                                                                    22 
 
(v) Where the distance between the foremost and the rearmost axle is at least 
4.6 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 8,640 kilograms.
 22 
(vi) Where the distance between the foremost and the rearmost 
axle is at least 4.9 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 
9,400 kilograms.                                                                                           24 
(vii) Where the distance between the foremost and the rearmost axle is at 
least 5.1 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,400 
kilograms.                                                                                                    24 
 
(c) Vehicles with four or more axles, their weight shall not exceed 18,290 
kilograms except in a case below, where the weight opposite that case shall 
apply— 
B 1706  
 
(i) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is 
at least 3.7 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 
8 640 kilograms.                                                                                                             20 
(ii) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least 
4.6 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 8,640 kilograms.                  22 
(iii) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least 
4.7 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 8,640 kilograms                   24 
(iv) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least 
5 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,150 kilograms.                     24 
(v) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least 
5.6 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,150 kilograms.                  26 
(vi) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least 
6 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,660 kilograms.                     26 
(vii) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least 
5.9 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,150 kilograms.                  28 
(viii) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least 
6 .3 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,660 kilograms.                  28 
(ix) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least 
6.3 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,400 kilograms.                  30 
(x) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least 
6.4 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,660 kilograms.                  30 
 
B.      For articulated vehicles, the following class of vehicles are permitted— 
 
Class of articulated vehicles        Inner axle spacing in meter              Gross weight tons 
 
(a) Two-axled motor vehicle with— 
 
(i) 1 axled trailer less than 2.1 20 
(ii) 1 axled trailer at least 2.1 22 
(iii) 1 axled trailer at least 3.1 24 
(iv) 2 or more axled trailer less than 2.9 24 
(v) 2 or more axled trailer at least 2.9 26 
(vi) 2 or more axled trailer at least 3.1 28 
(vii) 2 or more axled trailer at least 3.6 30 
(viii) 2 or more axled trailer at least 4.2 32 
(b) Three or more axled motor vehicle with— 
 
(i) 1 axled trailer less than 2 22 
(ii) 1 axled trailer at least 2 24 
(iii) 1 axled trailer at least 2.7 26 
(iv) 1 axled trailer at least 3 28 
B 1707  
 
(v) 1 axled trailer                                         at least 4                                 30 
(vi) 1 axled trailer                                     at least 4.4                                 32 
(vii) 2 or more axled trailer                       less than 2                                 24 
(viii) 2 or more axled trailer                         at least 2                                 26 
(ix) 2 or more axled trailer                        at least 2.3                                 28 
(x) 2 or more axled trailer                          at least 3.2                                 30 
(xi) 2 or more axled trailer                           at least 4                                 32 
C.          Maximum weight for two closely-spaced axles— 
 
Distance between axles metres                                    Axle weight tons 
 less than 1.02 11 
at least 1.02 16 
at least 1.05 17 
at least 1.2 18 
at least 1.35 18.5 
at least 1.5 19 
at least 1.85 20 
D. Maximum weight for three closely-spaced axles—  
 Distance between outer axles metres Axle weight tons 
 less than 1.4 3.66 
 at least 1.4 4 
 at least 1.5 6 
 at least 2 6.51 
 at least 2.55 7 
 at least 3.15 7.51 
 
Maximum Weights for Closely-Spaced Axles 
Tow closely-Spaced Axles 
 
Distance between Axles 
Metres 
less than 
 
 
 
At least 
Permissible Combined 
Weight 
tons 
1.0 — 11 
— 1.02 16 
— 1.05 17 
— 1.2 18 
— 1.35 18.5 
— 1.5 19 
— 1.85 20 
B 1708  
 
Three Closely-Spaced Axles 
 
Distance between Enter Axles 
Metres 
Less than 
 
 
 
At least 
Permissible axle 
Weight 
tons 
1.4 — 3.66 
— 1.4 4 
— 1.5 6 
— 2 6.5 
— 2.55 7 
— 3.15 7.5 
B 1709 
SCHEDULE 16 (Regulation 123) 
 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
REFLECTIVE STICKERS FOR VEHICLES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Red alternatin g tape with silver which shall be 101.6 0 mm (4 inches ) in width and 
305 mm (12 inches) in length. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Regulation 123) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CAR REAR 
B 1710 
(Regulation 123) 
 
 
B 1711 
(Regulation 123) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TRUCK REAR 
B 1712 
(Regulation 123) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rear : The rear part of the body should have at both its upper and lower 
corner positions, two length of reflective tape 250 mm minimum at 90 degrees. 
The placement of tape should allow for a space of 200 mm at least between 
the reflective tape positions and the mandatory stop light. 
B 1713 
(Regulation 123) 
 
 
B 1714  
 
SCHEDULE 17                      (Regulation 203 (1)) 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
FORM MVA 30 
 
FEDERAL ROAD SAFETY CORPS NATIONAL 
HEADQUARTERS, PMB 125, WUSE ABUJA 
AMBULANCE SERVICES CHECK LIST. 
 
1.      Name of Organisation …..……………………………………………………... 
2.      Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) Registration No…..........…………….... 
(if already registered as an NGO) 
3.      Office Address ………… Phone No………E - Mail Address …......………….. 
4.      Country………………… State………………..Town …………………....……... 
Location …........................………………………………………………………… 
5.      Number ofAmbulance ….………………………………………………………... 
(i) Ambulance Registration Number : …................…………………………….. 
A……………………………….B…..……….........……C……………………… 
D ……………........................…. E …….…….........……. F ……………………... 
(ii) Ambulance Contact Phone No …............…………………………………… 
6.      List ofAmbulance Staff : ....……………………………………………………… 
 
A. Doctors 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
B. Nurses 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
C. Paramedics 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
D. Others 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
B 1715  
(k) Fireman Axe (     ) 
(l) Body Bag (     ) 
(m) Medical Waste Bin (     ) 
(n) Fire Extinguisher (     ) 
(o) BP Apparatus (     ) 
(p)  Stethoscope (     ) 
(q) Scalpel (     ) 
(r) Bed Pan (     ) 
 
 
E. Names of Licenced Drivers 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
 
7.      Types of Ambulances (Ambulance must be painted in White Color) 
(a) Advance Life Support : 1doctor, 2nurses, 2paramedics, 1anasthetc & 1 
Driver 
(b) Basic Life Support: 1doctors, 2nurses,2paramedics & 1 Driver 
(c) Simple Carrier: 1nurse, 2 Paramedics, 1 First Aid Giver & 1driver 
 
8.      Types of Carrier (Please Tick) 
(a) Single 
(b) Double 
(c) Multiple 
9.      Ambulance Gadgets if available (Please Tick) 
(a) ECG Monitor 
(b) Automatic Defibrillator 
(c) Manual Defibrillator 
(d) Pulse Oxymeter 
(e) Manual Section Machine 
(f) (i) Oxygen Cylinder Empty 
(ii) Oxygen Cylinder Filled 
(g) Different Sizes Laryngoscope Kit 
(h) (i) Adult Ambu Bag 
(ii) Paediatric Ambu Bag 
(iii) Neonate Ambu Bag 
(i) Stretcher With Straps                                 (     ) 
(ii) Stretcher Without Straps                           (     ) 
(j) (i) Oxygen Mask                                                         (     ) 
(ii) Paediatric Oxygen Mask                                        (     ) 
B 1716  
(s) Forceps (     ) 
(t) Scissors (     ) 
(u) Thermometer (     ) 
(v) First Aid Bag (     ) 
(w) Others (Specify) (   ) 
 
11. Consumables and Medicaments available (Please Tick) 
 
S/N        Drugs Description Quantity Available 
1.       5% Dextrose saline   
2.       5% Dextrose water   
3.       Normal saline   
4.       10% Dextrose water   
5.       50% Dextrose   
6.       Ringer Lactate solution   
7.       Injection Hydrocortisone   
8.       Injection adrenaline   
Injection atropine   
10.       Injection Diazepam   
11.       Xylocaine 5% plain   
12.       Xylocaine + Adrenaline   
13.       Injection ketamine   
14.       Injection morphine   
15.       Injection Magnesium   
16.       Injection Diclofenac   
17.       Injection Paracetamol   
18.       Injection Bicarbonate   
19.       Injection Aminophyline   
20.       Tablet Ibuprofen   
21.       Tablet Paracetamol   
22.       Tablet Diclofenac   
23.       Tablet Norflex   
24.       Tablet Glucose   
25.       2ml needles and syringes   
26.       5ml needles and syringes   
27.       10ml syringes   
28.       50ml syringes   
B 1717  
 
29.       Cannular size 12-8   
30.       Scalp vein needles size 21-23   
31.       Creep bandages size 6" 4"   
32.       Splint (different sizes)   
33.       Sterile Bandages   
34.       Iodine   
35.       Dettol   
36.       Eusol   
37.       Hydrogen peroxide   
38.       Haemostostatic Agents(different sizes)   
39.       Surgical Gloves(different sizes)   
40.       Disposable Gloves   
41.       Hydrohealing Bag with content   
 
 
 
MADE  at Abuja this 13th day of August, 2012. 
 
 
OSITA CHIDOKA, OFR 
Corps Marshal and Chief Executive 
Federal Road Safety Commission 
 
 
 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTE 
(This note does not form part of these Regulations but is intended to 
explain its purport) 
 
These Regulations seeks to revoke the National Road Traffic Regulations, 
2004 and to provide for an effective and comprehensiv e legal and institutional 
framework for road safety including provisions for registration and licencing of 
vehicles, establishment and regulation of driving schools, vehicle identification 
numbers, learner’s permit and driver’s licence, drivers and conductors registration 
and badges, taxis, stage carriages, omnibuses and motorcycles for hire, use of school 
buses, speed limits, use of sirens, traffic signs and trafficators, road crossing, parking 
of vehicles, driving and general duties of driver of vehicles or passengers on public 
roads, hinderin g or obstructin g traffic on public road, damage to public road, 
pedestria n crossing , driving under the influenc e of alcohol and drugs, special 
provisions relating to expressway, reporting of road crashes, motorcycle and bicycles 
on public roads, provisions relating to exempted bodies and operators of transport 
services, operation of ambulance services, towing vehicles and miscellaneous motor 
traffic regulations to ensure road safety. 
